<BODY DOCID=10931>
Floating-rate notes denominated in a
foreign currency, a relatively new wrinkle on Wall Street, will
probably be issued infrequently because the so-called "window
of opportunity" opens and closes quickly, traders say.
    "In just two days we had as many issues. As a result, the
market became glutted," said one trader.
    He said the window depends more on supply than on foreign
exchange or interest rate risk, at least for the moment.
"Obviously, currency risk is important. But there is a limited
number of investors right now for the paper," he said.
    On Thursday, Bear, Stearns and Co sole-managed a 100 mln
New Zealand dlr offering of three-year floating-rate notes
issued by Ford Motor Credit Co, a unit of Ford Motor Co &lt;F>.
    The initial rate for the notes will be set on April 15, and
quarterly after that, at 200 basis points below the 90-day New
Zealand bank bill rate. They are non-callable for life.
    This followed by a week another Bear Stearns-led offering
of the same amount of New Zealand dollar notes for Dow Chemical
Co &lt;DOW>. The initial rate was also to be initially set on
April 15, and quarterly after that, at 340 basis points below
the same 90-day New Zealand rate.
    Because the Dow Chemical notes carried an interest rate
floor of 17 pct, the issue saw strong investor demand,
underwriters said.
    But the Ford Credit notes and Friday's offering of 130 mln
New Zealand dlrs of floating-rate notes due 1990 issued by
General Electric Co's &lt;GE> General Electric Credit Corp via
Prudential-Bache Securities Inc, did not have such a floor.
    "Obviously, the two firms did not want to issue floaters
and face the risk of New Zealand rates falling sharply," an
underwriter away from the syndicates said. He and others noted
that the New Zealand 90-day rate was 27 pct late last week.
    An underwriter familiar with the Dow Chemical deal pointed
out that because of the interest rate and currency swaps Dow
did, the issuer felt comfortable setting a rate floor.
    Domestic offerings of foreign currency denominated date
first surfaced in Fall 1985. By using currency and rate swaps,
companies can sell debt that pays a high interest rate in a
foreign currency like Australian or New Zealand dollars. But
the issuers actually realize savings on borrowing costs.
    "I would say that every company which issued foreign
currency debt saved some basis points when compared to
same-maturity plain vanilla U.S. issues," an analyst said.
    Investors, mainly institutions, were attracted to the early
issues because of the high interest rates. They were willing to
absorb foreign currency risk until mid-1986, when sharp slides
posted by the Australian and New Zealand dollars brought such
issuance to a quick halt.
    It was not until late last year, after the currencies
stabilized, that companies again started issuing debt
denominated in Australian and New Zealand dollars.
    But many investors have still shied away from the debt,
remembering the mid-1986 downturn of the Australian and New
Zealand dollars, analysts noted.
    To attract some of those investors back to the fold,
underwriters like Bear Stearns decided to structure the foreign
currency issues as floating rate debt, sources said.
    This occurred against a backdrop of uncertainty over the
course of U.S. interest rates for the intermediate term, and
predictions by a number of economists that Treasury yields
would rise in the second half of the year, the sources noted.
    A Bear Stearns officer said more than half of the Ford
Credit notes were sold by late Friday afternoon, the second day
of offering. "That is quicker than some recent fixed-rate New
Zealand dollar note issues," he said.
    However, underwriters away from the Bear Stearns syndicate
said the issue may have sold even faster if Prudential-Bache
did not offer the General Electric Credit notes on Friday.
    They pointed out that the Ford notes were rated A-1 by
Moody's Investors and AA-minus by Standard and Poor's, while
the General Electric notes, which had the same interest rate
terms and were also non-callable to maturity, carried
top-flight AAA ratings by both agencies.
    "We have sold 20 to 25 pct of the GE notes. For first-day
sales on a Friday afternoon, I'm happy with the results," an
officer on Prudential-Bache's syndicate desk said.
    Investors pay the U.S. dollar equivalent of the foreign
currency-denominated notes, underwriters said.
    Investment bankers said the next floating-rate issue of New
Zealand or Australian dollar-denominated debt is probably a few
weeks away.
    "I would like to underwrite a deal a day. But with the Dow,
Ford and GE offerings, the marketplace has had enough for the
time being," the Prudential-Bache officer admitted.
    Meanwhile, IDD Information Services said the 30-day
corporate visible supply fell to 3.29 billion dlrs last week
from 3.98 billion dlrs in the previous week.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12525>
Citicorp said that on behalf of its
Citibank N.A. Subsidiary, it is issuing 100,000 naked currency
warrants priced at 67-1/2 marks each to purchase Australian
dlrs for marks at a rate of 1.1825 marks per Australian dlr.
    The current rate is 1.2850 marks per Australian dlr. Each
warrant is for a nominal amount of 1,000 marks and the minimum
purchase will be for 100 warrants.
    The warrants expire on January 8, 1988. Payment is due on
April 8 and the warrants will be listed on the Luxembourg Stock
Exchange.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5779>
The Australian dollar rose more than 40
points and money market interest rates retreated on the better
than expected improvement in the February current account
deficit, but economists and dealers were cautious about
identifying it as the start of a downward trend.
    The current account deficit narrowed to 750 mln dlrs in
February from 1.23 billion in January. It hit 13.82 billion
dlrs in 1985/86 to end-June.
    The currency jumped to 0.6858/63 U.S. Dlrs and traded as
high as 0.6875 before retreating to around 0.6864/69.
    "It's got 69 cents written all over it," one dealer said.
    Foreign exchange dealers said some buyers had gone long on
the dollar expecting a lower figure and sold it down about 30
points to 0.6820 U.S. Dlrs before the release.
    The 750 mln dlr deficit was at the lower end of forecasts
and analysts said the market would welcome any figure below one
billion dlrs for March.
    Banque National de Paris &lt;BNPP.A> senior dealer Peter
Nicolls cautioned that in the long term the currency and
interest rates were too high for import substitution and export
industries.
    Nicolls said he expected the dollar to go as high as 0.6875
and perhaps to 69 cents tomorrow.
    &lt;Lloyds Bank NZA Ltd> chief economist Will Buttrose said
the 42 mln dlr trade surplus was encouraging as were imports at
2.77 billion dlrs, down from 2.99 billion in January.
    But he warned that the outlook for rural and iron and coal
exports remained poor. "We should remember we are paying
something like seven to eight billion dollars simply to service
our foreign debt and that is not going to go away in the near
term," Buttrose said.
    Buttrose said he expected a March deficit of around 900 mln
dlrs, and added "Any figure under a billion dollars will be
acceptable (to the markets)."
    ANZ Banking Group Ltd &lt;ANZA.S> senior economist Ian Little
said the big question was whether the improvement in exports
could be sustained. February FOB exports rose to 2.82 billion
dlrs from a revised 2.74 billion in January.
    Interest rates responded quickly to the deficit news, with
90-day bank bill yields falling to 16.42-16.45 pct from early
highs of 16.50 and yields yesterday as high as 16.65.
    Longer term yields fell with 10-year bonds at 13.66/68 pct
from 13.74 before the release and highs of 13.87 yesterday.
    The stock market was easier at midsession but brokers said
the current account data had little impact on trading.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5811>
Spot volume in the Australian foreign
exchange market jumped to a record 22.63 billion dlrs a day in
January from 16.18 billion in December and 8.27 billion a year
earlier, the Reserve Bank said in its monthly bulletin.
    The previous record was 17.51 billion dlrs last August.
    The peak broke a steady trading trend of 15 to 17 billion
dlrs a day seen in the second half of 1986.
    Including forward deals, total deliverable volume was 27.01
billion dlrs a day (13.43 billion against the Australian
dollar) against 19.56 billion (8.48 billion) in December and
9.92 billion (5.88 billion) a year earlier, the bank said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
