<BODY DOCID=14767>
News of an agreement among G-5 and G-7
finance ministers meeting in Washington this week will be key
to the direction of currency futures at the International
Monetary Market, but any such agreement will need to go beyond
the Paris accord to stem the recent rise in futures, financial
analysts said.
    "If they (the finance ministers) give the market something
really new to look at -- that is, some package that goes beyond
the Paris agreement -- you could have a real boost in the
dollar," said Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Mills.
    On the other hand, "anything neutral would tend to be
bearish for the dollar," Mills said.
    Traders and analysts agree a simple reaffirmation of the
Paris accord will not be enough to halt the decline in the
dollar, nor will central bank intervention.
    "A lot of people are looking for a reason to buy currencies
and sell the dollar," said one trader for a large retail firm
on the floor of the IMM.
    "If there is no concrete resolution, they will be looking
to sell the dollar, possibly down to the 1.80 mark level," he
said.
    Technically, most currency futures are poised for another
rise, said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig Sloane.
    Sloane noted that June yen futures set a new contract high
on Tuesday and closed at its best level ever, while June
sterling set a new contract high on Monday.
    "Everything seems to be coming to a head right now and you
don't need much to get things rolling," Sloane said.
    In particular, the June Canadian dollar, for which Sloane
recently put out a buy recommendation, has hovered in a range
between 0.7600 and 0.7660 in recent weeks, forming a triangle
on the charts from which it may soon break out on the upside.
    A close above the contract high of 0.7665 would signal a
breakout, Sloane said, and would likely mean the nearby
Canadian dollar contract would extend its advance to near the
0.7800 level. June Canadian dollar closed at 0.7656 Tuesday.
    Mills noted, however, that interest rate differentials
between Canadian securities and U.S. securities have narrowed
dramatically recently, with yields on 10-year Canadian bonds
only about 80 basis points above U.S. 10-year notes.
    What has helped the Canadian currency, she noted, is an
increasing proportion of foreign funds flowing into the
Canadian equity market, particularly from Japanese investors.
    Other analysts, however, said currency futures may be near
the top of their long-term rally.
    "Something will be done at the (G-5 and G-7) meeting to
calm people," said David Horner of Merrill Lynch Economics.
    The Paris accord has pretty much fixed where major European
currencies will trade, Horner said.
    But sterling futures may still make another run for new
highs, up to 1.6300 to 1.6500 dlr in the June contract, on the
positive atmosphere that will prevail before British elections
and possibly another interest rate cut, Horner said. The June
British pound closed at 1.6080 on Tuesday.
    Horner said that new boundaries for the trading range of
the yen are likely to come out of the G-5 and G-7 meetings.
    The most likely range will be a bottom for the dollar
between 140 to 142 yen per dollar and a top near 150 to 152
yen, Horner said. In yen futures, the bottom of the dollar's
range would be equivalent to 0.007100 to 0.007150 in the June
contract. June yen closed at 0.006913 on Tuesday.
    If such a range does emerge from the meetings, "we will
have one more rally in the yen," Horner said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2406>
Finance Minister Michael Wilson said
large inflows of capital into Canada, principally into the
country's bond market, is a major reason behind the sharp
recovery in the Canadian dollar.
    He said the inflow of funds, mainly from Japan, Europe and
the United States, is the result of "confidence in the
direction this country is going in."
    "That is the reason why the (Canadian) dollar today is
higher than 75 cts (U.S.) compared to this time last year (when
it was) a little over 69 cts," Wilson told the House of Commons
daily question period.
    Figures released this week show foreigners purchased a
record 23.1 billion dlrs of Canadian bonds in 1986, more than
double the previous year, with Japan investing a record 9.5
billion dlrs in the market.
    Wilson was responding to opposition party questions about a
possible loss of jobs from the rise in Canadian investment
abroad. Canadian investment, including the buying of foreign
companies, stocks and bonds, rose to 12.53 billion dlrs from
6.19 billion dlrs in 1985.
    The minister said the flow of funds from abroad would
generate many new jobs in Canada.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3535>
Interest in the currency futures market
has shifted to the soaring British pound and the potentially
explosive Canadian dollar, and away from the dull Continental
and Japanese currencies, analysts said.
    The June pound, which added 6.3 cents over the past
week-and-a-half to reach a new contract high of 1.5930 to the
dollar on Monday, has spawned a new-found speculative boom.
    "Brokers have to push their clients somewhere...and
technically, the pound is in the best shape," PaineWebber
analyst Jason Gillard said.
    "We've tried to take a bullish approach to the pound, and
we're going to stay with that, there's no reason to change,"
Smith Barney analyst Craig Sloane said.
    Many traders took on long pound/short West German mark
futures positions, although some of those cross-trades were
liquidated yesterday, Sloane said.
     The fundamental keys to the pound's rise have been
relatively high U.K. interest rates and a vague optimism
surrounding the British economy, analysts said.
    "Money seems to be chasing yields," William Byers, of Bear
Stearns, said of the 10-1/2 pct U.K. base lending rate.
    Many analysts are skeptical about further gains in the
pound, on the inference that the Bank of England will seek to
relieve upward pressure on the currency by pushing down
interest rates after the nation's budget is released March 17.
    The budget itself could have an impact, depending on how
well it is received, but analysts say relative interest rates
and oil income remain the main influences on the currency.
    However, the market may be able to absorb lower U.K.
interest rates, as it has done when other countries have cut
their discount rates, and extend the pound's rally, Sloane
said.
    The Canadian dollar has not been rising like the pound, but
Sloane and other analysts cautiously predicted a big move soon.
    The sideways price pattern in the June contract, with
smaller and smaller price ranges, has formed a "bull flag" on
price charts, technically-oriented analysts said.
    "It makes for an explosive type of situation that often
leads to a breakout," in this case to the upside, Sloane said.
    Byers agreed there was potential for the June Canadian
dollar to rally above the 77.00 cent level from the most recent
close at 74.80 cents to the U.S. dollar.
    "At this stage of the game I'd call the market long-term
positive, but for the technical burden of proof you need a
close above (the previous contract high of) 75.25," Byers said.
    As to the traditionally more active currencies, stability
was the catchword and reluctance the watchword among analysts.
    Sloane said it was important that June Swiss francs and
June German marks held above support at 0.6400 and 0.5400,
respectively, closing at 0.6438 and 0.5430.
    Yesterday's rebound showed the market was still very
respectful of the Paris accord, and the threat of central bank
intervention by the G-5 nations plus Canada.
    "We may still probe to see what the parameters are," Byers
said, "but people are very reluctant because they don't know
where the central banks will be (to intervene)."
    Gillard said the mark could drop to a previous price
consolidation area around 0.5250 based on the profoundly
sluggish West German economy, but that he would be a buyer at
that level.
 Reuter
</BODY>
