<BODY DOCID=121>
High feed prices will cause the
Chinese to reduce hog herd growth and pork production this
year, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.
    In its World Production and Trade Report, the department
said hog numbers at the start of 1987 were estimated at 331.6
mln head, up slightly from 1986, and 10 mln head above earlier
projections for 1987.
    Pork production in 1986 was up 4.2 pct to 17.25 mln tonnes,
slightly below earlier estimates, it said.
    For 1987, production is projected to fall to 17.05 mln
tonnes.
    Feed prices at the end of January were reported 35 to 40
pct above year-ago levels, the department said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1110>
Belgian Foreign Trade Minister Herman
De Croo said he believed there would be a compromise within the
European Community, EC, on its proposed tax on vegetable fats
and oil, averting a pledged tough trade response by the United
States.
    De Croo, in Washington for talks with Administration
officials and Congressional leaders, said at a news conference
there is a battle within the community on the tax on fats and
oils used in the 12 EC countries.
    But he added, "I do not think it will be a big issue because
there will be a big debate inside Europe," adding "so there will
be a compromise."
    U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said yesterday
that if the community went ahead with the tax, the United
States would respond "vigorously" to protect its trade rights and
access to community markets.
    De Croo also said he thought the community would postpone
its April 28 deadline for imposing new slaughterhouse rules to
cover all meats brought into EC nations if some progress was
made toward resolving differences with the United States.
    U.S. officials say its rules now meet health standards and
the EC should require equivalent but not identical standards.
    He also told reporters he hoped the community could deal
with another controversial health proposal that would forbid
the feeding of hormones to cattle, which is also opposed by the
United States.
    De Croo gave no deals on how he though the issue might be
resolved. That rule is go into effect on January 1, 1988.
    He said U.S. cattlemen say there is no reason to change
slaughterhouse practices in April if the meat is to be banned a
few months later by the hormone rule.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1372>
The U.S. Agriculture Department
proposes to rename the "USDA Good" grade of beef to "USDA Select."
    The department said the proposed change is in response to a
petition from Public Voice for Food and Health Policy and would
present a more positive image of this grade of beef and help
calorie-conscious consumers select leaner cuts of meat.
    Under current rules, the "good" grade of meat has less
marbling and fat than the "prime" or "choice" grades, it said.
    Standards for all of the grades would remain unchanged
under the proposal.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1393>
Delegates to the American Pork Congress
will decide whether or not they want mandatory production
controls when they vote on the official pork producer policy
wednesday, the National Pork Producers Council said.
    The American Pork Congress, APC, delegates, listened to
both sides of the question when former Iowa Congressman Berkley
Bedell and Bill Lesher, USDA Assistant Secretary for Economics
for the years 1981 to 1985 debated at the convention in
Indianapolis.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1398>
The National Pork Board announced at the
American Pork Congress convention in Indianapolis that refunds
under the legislative checkoff program are running less than
expected.
    The Board oversees collection and distribution of funds
from the checkoff program that was mandated by the 1985 farm
bill. Virgil Rosendale, a pork producer from Illinois and
chairman of the National Pork Board, said over 2.2 mln dlrs was
collected in January and refunds are running almost nine pct,
considerably less than expected.
    "We believe that this indicates good producer support for
the new checkoff. We're getting good compliance from markets,
from packers and from dealers," Rosendale said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1407>
The National Pork Board on Monday
allocated 2.4 mln dlrs in discretionary funds, collected from
the 100 pct national checkoff program, to three industry
organizations.
    The National Pork Producers Council, NPPC, will receive
almost 1.8 mln dlrs for use in the areas of food service,
consumer education and marketing. In addition the board
allocated 375,000 dlrs in use in "Pork - The Other White Meat"
campaign, according to a Pork Board spokesperson.
    The National Livestock and Meat Board will receive 644,000
dlrs to continue work in educating health care officials.
120,000 dlrs in matching funds will be provided to the meat
board for use in the development of a better market for
processed meats.
    The Meat Export Federation was awarded 50,000 dlrs to
increase the market for chilled and processed U.S. pork in
Japan and Singapore. Retail stores in these two countries will
be providing additional funding for the program.
    A total of 5,000 dlrs for work in encouraging McDonalds to
expand its McRib sandwich to Japan and Singapore was also
awarded to the Meat export Federation.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1557>
The 350 mln Ecu three-year package of
social and structural measures agreed early today by European
Community farm ministers features a plan to compensate farmers
for reducing output of certain surplus products, EC Commission
sources said.
    The ministers agreed that under this "extensification"
scheme, farmers would qualify for compensation if they cut
output of specific products by at least 20 pct.
    The plan would initially apply to cereals, beef, veal and
wine, they added.
    Cereals farmers would have to achieve their output cuts by
reducing acreage, while cattle farmers would reduce their
number of head and vinegrowers would cut yield. In each case,
farmers would have to undertake not to step up their capacity
for output of other products which are in surplus in the EC.
    The sources said payment levels have not yet been fixed but
will be designed to compensate farmers for loss of profit on
the production they forego.
    The sources said the package also contains provisions for
payments to farmers who embark on a program aimed at protecting
or improving the environment.
    It would also mean compensatory allowances in less favoured
farming areas would be extended to crops. At present such
allowances are available only for livestock.
    The package would provide 20 mln Ecus for research into
alternative farming techniques, the sources added.
    At a news conference EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen
said the Commission is also working on proposals to enable the
EC and member states to provide direct income supports for
relatively poor farmers.
    Andriessen did not give full details, but said member state
aid would be subject to "strict criteria to avoid distortion of
competition."
    EC payments would aim to help farmers to survive a
difficult period while the EC tackles the problems of surplus
production.
    The Commission withdrew from the package agreed last night
proposals to pay "early retirement" pensions to farmers aged 55
or over who gave up production. Those who took their land
completely out of farm production, rather than passing it on to
their heirs, would have received more generous payments.
    Andriessen said the Commission plans to present revised
proposals along these lines in an effort to get a scheme
agreed.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1772>
Congressmen from beef producing
states and representatives of the U.S. livestock industry 
urged the Reagan administration to press Japan and South Korea
to open up their markets to imports of beef.
    Testifying at a House subcommittee hearing on livestock
issues, Rep. Hal Daub (R-Nebr.), said the administration should
push hard for greater beef imports by Japan and South Korea.
Daub was joined by several other lawmakers.
    U.S. assistant trade representative Suzanne Earley, replied
"we're not going to let Japan off the hook, or Korea." She
noted trade representative Clayton Yeutter met with a senior
Korean official last week on the beef issue, and that Yeutter
and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will visit Tokyo in
April for discussions on farm trade issues.
    Japan maintains a quota on beef imports, set at 58,400
tonnes high quality beef in fiscal 1987. South Korea has banned
beef imports but there are indications Seoul may bow to U.S.
pressure and allow some imports soon, industry officials said.
    In testimony today, Tom Cook, director of industry affairs
for the National Cattlemens Association said "the Congress,
administration and the industry must take a strong, tough and
united stand to impress the Japanese that we mean business and
that we expect them to open their markets."
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1970>
Traded volumes for U.K. Grain and potato
futures in February were down on the previous month while
pigmeat and pig cash settlement futures were higher, official
figures show.
    Combined wheat and barley futures trade declined to 892,700
tonnes from 1.19 mln in January, and the value fell to 97 mln
stg from 129 mln, Grain and Feed Trade Association (GAFTA)
figures show.
    A total of 984,960 tonnes were registered for main crop
potato futures in February valued at 157 mln stg, versus
992,760 and 164 mln stg in January.
    Soymeal futures trade totalled 76,340 tonnes against 90,680
in January, and value declined to nine mln stg from 10 mln.
    Nine pigmeat contracts were traded in February, six more
than in the previous month, representing 450 carcases against
150, valued at 29,347 stg against 9,847 stg.
    Pig cash settlement futures saw 201 contracts traded,
against 19 in January, and the value rose to 659,864 stg from
119,610 stg.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10124>
French Agricultural Minister
Francois Guillaume warned that France would flatly reject
proposed reforms of the European Community, EC, cereals, sugar
and oilseeds sectors, which he said would disrupt these
markets.
    The EC Commission's proposals to shorten the intervention
period and lower monthly premiums for cereals and increase the
financial burden on the sugar producers will also result in
lower real prices for producers, he told farmers here.
    "I give you my word that France, while it will not reject
technical adjustments or serious discussion, will simply reply
in the negative to these bad reforms," Guillaume told the annual
conference of the country's major farm union, FNSEA 
(Federation Nationale des Syndicats Dexploitants Agricoles).
    Community agricultural ministers are due to meet again
Monday to try and agree a package of reforms to curb spiralling
EC output and fix farm prices for 1987/88.
    Relations between the government and farmers have become
strained in France in recent months.
    There have been sporadic but frequent demonstrations by
farmers protesting over sharp falls in meat and pork prices and
further cutbacks in Community milk output.
    But Guillaume's warning that he would reject reorganisation
of the EC cereal and sugar markets -- France being a major
producer of both crops -- won him warm applause from the
FNSEA's farmers.
    His pledge to fight the EC proposals and push for the
complete dismantling of the system of cross border taxes
designed to smooth out currency differences known as Monetary
Compensatory Amounts, MCA's, however, are unlikely to avoid
further protests by producers.
    Farm leader Raymond Lacombe said the union planned to go
ahead with a series of major protests both in France and abroad
against the EC Commission's proposals to overhaul the farm
sector.
    "The Minister's proposals back up our determination to
organise union action in the coming weeks," he told reporters,
adding that this could also act in Guillaume's favour on a
ministerial level.
    Guillaume was head of the FNSEA for many years before being
appointed farm minister last spring.
    Lacombe refused to say whether the farmers felt that
Guillaume was doing a good job as farm minister.
    There have been certain advances on cutting production
costs, reducing fiscal costs and awarding drought aid, but
there are still areas where more could be done such as on
farmers' indebtedness, he said.
    Guillaume told the conference the government will make
available 2.4 billion francs (396 mln dlrs) to help producers
reduce milk output and to encourage older farmers to retire.
    The government has already announced financial aid for the
milk sector and it was not clear how much of the package
announced today was new aid, Lacombe said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10334>
Botswana has stopped importing almost
all meat products from Zimbabwe after reports of a suspected
outbreak of foot and mouth disease in the neighbouring country.
    Botswana's official news agency, BOPA, announcing the ban
last night, quoted Agriculture Minister Daniel Kwelagobe as
saying only sterilised and canned animal products would be
allowed into the country, with immediate effect.
    He said Zimbabwean veterinary officials had notified him
that they suspected foot and mouth disease had broken out at
Insiza, 100 km northeast of Bulawayo, capital of the mainly
cattle-ranching southwestern province of Matabeleland.
    Zimbabwean officials were not immediately available for
comment.
    The ban will affect products such as uncanned meat, milk,
ham, butter and bacon, BOPA reported.
    Botswana exports much of its high-grade beef to the
European Community and augments its local supplies with meat
imports from Zimbabwe.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10373>
A scheme to distribute surplus food
free to the poor in the European Community (EC), which was due
to expire next Tuesday, will be partially extended for a
further month, an EC Commission spokesman said.
    He added the executive Commission has not yet decided
whether the scheme should become a permanent feature of the
EC's struggle to find a use for its massive stocks of farm
produce.
    Almost 60,000 tonnes of cereals, sugar, beef, butter and
other food have been authorised for distribution under an
operation sanctioned by EC farm ministers on January 20 in
which charities act as executive Commission agents.
    The original idea was to help the needy survive this year's
unusually cold European winter.
    The spokesman said the Commission was extending the scheme
fully in Greece, which has recently been hit by unseasonal
snowstorms, for the month of April.
    Other EC countries would be authorised to use stocks of
food for which they have already applied under the scheme up to
April 30. The spokesman said this would enable distribution of
flour, semolina, sugar and olive oil at a relatively high rate
next month.
    He said the Commission, which has powers to continue most
aspects of the scheme without consulting ministers further,
will be considering soon whether it should be made permanent.
    Cost, which has already reached around 65 mln European
currency units, would be a major consideration.
    End-January stocks included 1.28 mln tonnes of butter,
520,000 tonnes of beef and over 10 mln tonnes of cereals.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10616>
Zimbabwe has confirmed an outbreak of
the animal-borne hoof-and-mouth disease, which prompted
Botswana on Thursday to stop imports of almost all Zimbabwean
meat products.
    Agriculture Ministry Permanent Secretary Robbie Mupawose
said it had been found at a ranch in southwestern Matabeleland
province and that all measures were being taken to contain it
from spreading. "The effect of this outbreak on Zimbabwe's beef
exports is being examined," he added in a statement.
    Zimbabwe exports a wide range of meat products to
neighbouring states and some 8,000 tonnes of high-grade beef to
the European Community annually worth about 48 mln U.S. Dlrs.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11278>
Pigmeat and beef futures, which have
been thinly traded on the London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE,
despite lower physical prices and the introduction of new
contracts, need more effective marketing, LMFE chairman Pat
Elmer said in his annual report.
    In 1986 the Exchange introduced live cattle and pig cash
settlement contracts, representing a move away from the
problems of cash distortions and squeezes, which initial
deliverable "buyers option" contracts created, he said.
    Although the physical industry is aware of the market and
follows its prices keenly, this has not been reflected in
market volume, Elmer said.
    "If we are to achieve our true potential the floor members
must give the market much more time and attention," he added.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11544>
European Community agriculture
ministers agreed to extend the 1986/87 milk and beef marketing
years to the end of May, Belgian minister Paul de Keersmaeker
told a news conference.
    He said the reason for the two-month extension of the only
EC farm product marketing years which end during the spring
months was that it would be impossible for ministers formally
to agree 1987/88 farm price arrangements before May 12.
    This is when the European Parliament is due to deliver its
opinion on price proposals from the EC Commission.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12257>
The United States department of
agriculture estimated live poultry slaughter for the week
ending April 1  as follows, in thousands -
            Current      Previous
 Class      week         week
 Bro/Fry      92,552      95,563 
 Lt Fowl       2,840       3,354 
 Hvy Fowl        651         789 
 Check Total  96,043      99,706 
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12372>
The U.S. House Agriculture Committee
approved proposals to extend the life of the Export Enhancement
Program, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reagan
administration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union.
    The proposals were approved as amendments to a
comprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year.
    In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committee
approved several proposals which could restrict imports of
lamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Those
amendments affecting imports face an uncertain future because
the House Ways and Means Committee, which has overall
jurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them,
Congressional sources said.
    The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend the
life of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather than
the current three years through fiscal 1988.
    The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., also
would increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from
1.5 billion now.
    Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered by
Rep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Department
to value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisition
value. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pct
less expensive to operate.
    The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered by
Rep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administration
make an offer, but urges such action.
    The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. Glenn
English, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to
begin discussions with other major grain producing countries
aimed at jointly reducing world grain production.
    Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed the
amendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work.
    Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approved
by the panel, the most significant would require quotas on
imports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farm
product that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offered
by Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily at
curbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar and
foreign foods containing dairy products. It also may affect
peanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said.
    Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports of
casein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by New
Zealand and Ireland.
    The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the same
countercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S.
beef imports.
    Other miscellaneous amendments included:
    -- Urging the administration consider retaliating against
Japan and South Korea if those countries do not remove
restrictions on beef imports.
    -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shipped
each year under a food aid program called Section 416 to
800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now.
    -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study of
the Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat to
determine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier.
    -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse the
National Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for the
costs of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against a
Canadian countervailing duty case this year.
    -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decision
to apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by the
European Community to apply a vegetable oils tax.
    -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a National
Commission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended a
reorganization of USDA's trade policy apparatus.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12376>
Exotic Newcastle, a highly contagious
disease of pet birds and poultry, has been confirmed in two
pet-bird dealer facilities in Maryland, and New York, the U.S.
Agriculture Department said.
    The department said no domestic poultry are involved in the
outbreak.
    State quarantines have been placed on the two facilities,
in Hunt Valley, Maryland, and Schenectady, New York.
    The most serious U.S. outbreak of the disease occurred in
1971-73 in southern California, where the disease spread from
infected pet birds to a dense poultry population and nearly 12
mln birds, mostly laying hens, were destroyed at a cost of 56
mln dlrs, the department said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12737>
Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato said he
will meet U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng here on April
17 and 20 to discuss bilateral farm trade issues. Lyng will
visit Tokyo from April 16 to 27.
    Kato told reporters after a cabinet meeting all topics ofconcern to the U.S. Will be discussed, such as trade in beef

and oranges and import controls on farm products. He said
Shintaro Abe, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party's executive
council chairman, would propose some unspecified measures in
response to demands to ease import controls on U.S. Farm
products. Kato declined to give any details.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13149>
Four U.S. meat processors have asked
the federal government to relax a labelling requirement which
they said discourages the use of mechanically separated meat,
the U.S. Agriculture Department said.
    The petition, filed by Bob Evans Farms, Odom Sausage Co,
Sara Lee Corp and Owens Country Sausage, asks USDA to allow
mechanically separated meat to be listed on product labels as
the species from which it was derived.
    For example, "pork" would be listed on the ingredients
statement instead of "mechanically separated pork."
    Under the petition, the calcium content of the meat product
would have to be stated on the label and the mechanically
separated meat could constitute no more than 10 pct of the meat
and poultry portion of the product.
    Mechanically separated meat is a high-protein, low-cost
product that has been approved for use since 1978, USDA said.
    Current regulations allow use of mechanically separated
ingredients at levels up to 20 pct of the meat and poultry
product, but require it to be listed in the ingredient
statement as "mechanically separated (species)," USDA said.
    USDA said the petitioning firms claimed companies avoid
using mechanically separated meat in their products because the
term carries an "unwarranted negative connotation" in the minds
of many consumers. The petitioners also noted that no similar
regulation exists for poultry products.
    Mechanically separated meat is made by placing carcass
parts, which usually have been hand-trimmed but still have some
remaining meat, into specialized processing equipment.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13380>
Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp
(LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of
beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on
April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system,
against 6,813 a year ago.
    The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading
houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The
tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency's beef
import share. Japan's beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at
93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13382>
Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp
(LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of
beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on
April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system,
against 6,813 a year ago.
    The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading
houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The
tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency's beef
import share. Japan's beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at
93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2226>
Delegates from the National Pork
Producers Council, NPPC, yesterday approved programs for
control and eradication of pseudorabies and establishment of a
national safe drug use program.
    The delegate body, attending the American Pork Congress in
Indianapolis, approved a pseudorabies control and eradication
program at the state level after a recommendation from NPPC's
PRV (pseudorabies virus) oversight committee.
    The PRV committee received results of a three year, five
state pilot project which had a 97.5 pct success rate in
eradication of the disease within 116 hog herds. The project
was jointly funded by the USDA and NPPC.
    "Primarily it (the program) allows individual states to
deal with their own problems according to a timetable that
suits them best," Mike Wehler, member of the NPPC's PRV
oversight committee said.
    In regards to safe drug use, the delegates approved a plan
asking that NPPC be active in establishing a national safe drug
use program.
    The program would establish better relationships between
producers and veterinarians and eventually lead to a quality
assurance program in pork production, according to the plan.
    "This program basically communicates to the FDA that we are
concerned about safe drug use and will do our part to use drugs
safely, if FDA will allow the same policy to continue in
effect," Wehler said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2389>
Over 750,000 head of cattle are suffering
the effects of a severe shortage of feed as a result of a
prolonged drought in the normally rich sugar and cattle
producing province of Camaguey, the newspaper Granma reported.
    The province produces 23 pct of Cuba's beef and is the
island's number two province in milk production. Granma said
20,000 head of cattle are now in imminent danger.
    The newspaper said a "cattle emergency" had been decreed and
the cattle are being rounded up.
    Some 110,000 head have been transferred to the sugar cane
conditioning centers where newly harvested cane is cleaned
before being sent to the mills. The cattle are being fed the
residue left after cleaning the cane stalks. 32,000 head have
been sent to nearby provinces of Las Tunas and Ciego de Avila.
    Despite Cuba's ambitous cattle development plans, beef
rationing has been in effect over the past 25 years. In Havana,
each Cuban receives approximately 3/4 lb of rationed beef every
18 days.
    In a major area hit by drought, San Miguel, practically no
rain has fallen in the past 14 months. Grazing lands are
parched and the region was unable to produce 117,000 tonnes of
silage projected in its annual plan.
    Granma said rainfall over the past year has been less than
50 pct of normal precipitation.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2448>
Delegates from the National Pork
Producers Council, NPPC, attending the American Pork Congress
in Indianapolis, voted overwhelmingly to recommend the U.S.
congress not to change the farm bill. While there are no
specific pork items in that legislation, feed grain prices
directly affect pork producer profits, the NPPC said.
    Don Gingerich, a delegate from Iowa, said "to have
unpredictable changes come along periodically makes it very
difficult to plan and causes a lot of disruption."
    Other members said the farm bill has some imperfections but
that's a price pork producers are willing to pay for
legislative stability, an NPPC spokesman said.
    Delegates also passed unanimously a resolution that
Congress and the administration should act swiftly to identify
problems in the farm credit system.
    Farm Credit Task Force chairman and newly elected Vice
President of the NPPC Ray Hankes, said delegates wanted a
program that all commodity groups can work with and bring a 
resolution to this problem with legislators in Washington.
    Hankes added that the National Pork Producers Council will
work to save farmers and keep credit available, but not to save
or create any one credit system.

 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2495>
United Food and Commercial Workers Union
Local 222 rejected a new contract proposal from Iowa Beef
Processors Inc and remain out of work, union spokesman Allen
Zack said.
    In mid-December, Iowa Beef, a subsidiary of Occidental
Petroleum Corp, closed its beef processing plant at Dakota
City, Nebraska, because it said "it had no alternative to
threats by meatpackers to disrupt operations."
    About 2,800 UFCWU members are affected by what the union
terms as a lockout.  A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant
expired December 13.
    Zack said IBP's proposal included elimination of a two-tier
wage structure, a 60 cent an hour wage cut for slaughterers and
a 45 cent an hour wage reduction for processors.
    The new proposal also included a bonus system of 1,000 dlrs
for workers who had been at the plant for two years, Zack said.
The annual turnover rate at the facility is 100 pct, he said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2978>
Australian beef output declined to
104,353 tonnes carcass weight in January from 112,262 in
December and 105,715 a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau
said.
    This followed a decline in the cattle slaughter to 472,900
head from 509,500 in December and 478,800 in January 1986, the
bureau said.
    But cumulative beef output for the first seven months of
fiscal 1986/87 ending June 30 rose to 838,416 tonnes from
746,837 a year earlier following a rise in cattle slaughter to
3.84 mln head from 3.40 mln.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3084>
Three London markets which trade potato,
soymeal and meat futures said they will merge to form a new
Agricultural Futures Exchange.
    Legal advisers have been instructed to implement the
amalgamation of the London Potato Futures Association, LPFA,
the London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE, and the Grain and Feed
Trade Association's, GAFTA, Soya Bean Meal Futures Association,
SOMFA. No timetable was given.
    Members of the three exchanges have been consulted,
Agricultural Futures Exchange secretary Bill Englebright told
Reuters, and no objections have been raised to the merger.
    Three markets are involved at present but the new exchange
could ultimately combine five markets.
    Discussions are taking place with the Baltic International
Freight Futures Exchange, BIFFEX, and the GAFTA London Grain
Futures Market is considering the possibility of joining the
other markets, market officials said.
    The BIFFEX board is expected to reach a decision on the
merger at its meeting at the end of this month, after members
are consulted at a meeting on March 16.
    The grain futures market also intends to consult its
members soon, GAFTA director general James Mackie said.
    The aim of the amalgamation is to limit regulatory and
administrative costs and achieve the recognition required under
the 1986 Financial Services Act. This legislation requires a
futures market to become a Recognised Investment Exchange, RIE,
for trading to continue.
    Representatives of all the futures markets on the Baltic
Exchange have been discussing the possibility of a single RIE
structure since the beginning of the year.
    The new exchange now planned will apply to the Securities
and Investments Board for recognition as an RIE "at the
appropriate time," the Agricultural Futures Exchange said.
    "This commitment by the markets will enable progress to be
made to develop a stronger and more effective exchange to the
benefit of all those involved in the industry," the chairman of
the formation committee, Pat Elmer, said.
    The merged markets will remain at the Baltic Exchange.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3318>
About 800 members of the United Food and
Commercial Workers Union, UFCWU, struck John Morrell's Sioux
City, Iowa, pork processing plant at midnight Sunday, a
spokesman for the UFCWU national said.
    Meatpackers at the plant have been working without a
contract since the old pact expired January 31, UFCWU spokesman
John Mancuso said. The plant can slaughter and process about
13,000 to 14,000 hogs a day, he estimated.
    The UFCWU bargaining committee and full membership rejected
in late January a contract proposal by John Morrell, a
subsidiary of United Brands Inc, he said.

</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3901>
Argentine meat exports during
Jan/Dec 1986 totalled 220,911 tonnes, against 223,204 tonnes
shipped in the same 1985 period, the National Meat board said.
    Shipments in tonnes with comparative figures for the 1985
period, in brackets, included: beef 120,184 (137,686), horse
meat 25,651 (33,892) and beef offal 50,100 (47,745).
    Argentina's meat exports totalled 20,481 tonnes in December
1986, against 15,801 tonnes in the same 1985 month.
    Shipments in tonnes, with comparative figures for December
1985, in brackets, included: beef 14,384 (10,339), horse meat
1,609 (1,539) and beef offal 3,388 (3,098), the board said.
    Main destinations for refrigerated beef (bone in
equivalent) were as follows, in tonnes, with comparative
figures for 1985 in brackets:
    E.C. 46,300 (49,700), Israel 16,200 (17,600), Brazil 18,100
(unavailable), Peru 8,100 (2,300), Angola 4,800 (12,100), Chile
3,400 (8,200), Switzerland 3,000 (3,000), Canary Islands 2,400
(3,700), Singapore 1,900 (1,700), Aruba/Curazao 1,600 (1,700).
    Main destinations for canned meat and cooked beef (bone in
equivalent) in tonnes, with figures for 1985 in brackets, were:
United States 88,300 (102,900), E.C. 30,700 (24,100).
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4022>
Argentine meat exports during
Jan/Feb 1987 totalled 39,714 tonnes, against 36,594 tonnes
shipped in the same 1986 period, National Meat board said.
    Shipments in tonnes with comparative figures for the 1986
period, in brackets, included: beef 26,945 (20,096), horse meat
3,257 (4,211) and beef offal 7,660 (10,502).
    Argentine's meat exports totalled 20,243 tonnes in February
1987, against 19,217 tonnes shipped in the same 1986 month.
    Shipments in tonnes, with comparative figures for February
1986, in brackets, included: beef 13,272 (11,464), horse meat
1,543 (2,083) and beef offal 4,476 (4,672), the board added.
    Main destinations for refrigerated beef (bone in
equivalent) were as follows, in tonnes, with comparative
figures for 1986 in brackets -
    EC 5,500 (7,900), Brazil 5,200 (unavailable), Israel 3,700
(3,000), Peru 2,500 (800), Singapore 500 (300), Switzerland 500
(400), Canary Islands 500 (300), Malta 500 (700), Aruba/Curazao
200 (300), Chile 100 (600).
    Main destinations for canned meat and cooked beef (bone in
equivalent), in tonnes with comparative figures for Jan/Feb
1986, in brackets, were -
    United States 11,200 (13,400), EC 4,700 (5,100).
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4101>
Australia expects meat and livestock
exports to the Middle East to maintain an upward trend this
year, managing director of the Australian Meat and Livestock
Corp, Peter Frawley, said.
    He told Reuters an improvement in the economic climate and
less competition from the European Community should lead in the
Gulf area to higher beef sales, which dropped from 33,000
tonnes in 1980 to just 2,300 tonnes last year.
    "In the last three to four months there has been a
resurgence of inquiries," he said.
    Frawley is on a Gulf tour which will also take him to Saudi
Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait to assess market
potential.
    On beef exports, he said a 50 pct drop in European
Community intervention stock in the past 12 months would help
Australian sales.
    The fall meant the EC was not as aggressive in these
markets, where the Australian trade was the natural source of
supply, and Australia was "now back in," Frawley said.
    He said there was a debate in Australia as to whether the
Middle East market for livestock, which accounts for two-thirds
of meat export value to the area, would be maintained.
    He believed the trade would remain with a continuing demand
for fresh meat.
    The number of live sheep shipped last year to Saudi Arabia,
the biggest single market, was 3,214,159 compared with
2,939,226 in 1985. The numbers shipped to the United Arab
Emirates and Bahrain fell, however.
    Frawley said the slackening in demand in the Gulf had been
offset by other Arab countries around the Mediterranean.
    Other than livestock, Australia's overall meat sales to the
Middle East rose to 72,374 tonnes in 1986 from 52,403 tonnes
the previous year, largely due to the sale of 25,790 tonnes of
mutton and lamb to Iran.
    Australia sold 9,824 tonnes to Iran in 1985 after being
virtually excluded by New Zealand competition for several
years. Frawley said the 1986 sale contract had included a
barter provision, but Iran had paid in full in cash.
    Negotiations with the Iranians for 1987 shipments were
currently under way, with Iran again seeking credit and barter
provisions, he said.
    Frawley said there had been a tremendous growth in demand
for chilled lamb in the last four to five years and he
predicted this would continue.
    "The Middle East, and the Gulf in particular, is now
Australia's largest market for lamb, chilled and flown in.
Australia is in an ideal position to provide the supplies if
the market is willing to pay a premium for a fresh, young
product," he said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4503>
Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting a
lockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska processing plant and plans
to resume operations March 16, United Food and Commercial
Workers Union spokesman Allen Zack said by phone from his
Washington, D.C. headquarters.
    Iowa Beef, a susbsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp,
mailed a letter to members of UFCWU Local 222 informing them a
lockout imposed by the company on December 14 would be lifted
and meatpackers could return to work under Iowa Beef's
"revised, last and best final offer," according to Zack.
    The letter was signed by four managers at the Dakota City
plant.
    Iowa Beef closed the proessing plant indefinitely in
mid-December because, it said, it had no alternative to threats
by meatpackers to disrupt operations.
    About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by the
shutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expired
December 13.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4514>
Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting a
lockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska, processing plant and
plans to resume operations March 16, United Food and Commercial
Workers (UFCW) Union spokesman Allen Zack said.
    Iowa Beef mailed a letter to members of UFCW Local 222
informing them a lockout imposed by the company December 14
would be lifted and meatpackers could return to work under Iowa
Beef's "revised, last and best final offer," Zack said.
    Iowa Beef had closed the plant indefinitely in mid-December
because it said it had no alternative to threats by meatpackers
to disrupt operations.
    About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by the
shutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expired
December 13.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4577>
Local 222 of the United Food and
Commercial Workers Union said it is calling a membership
meeting, possibly Sunday, to discuss its response to a decision
by Iowa Beef Processors Inc to lift a lockout at its Dakota
City, Nebraska plant and resume operations.
    The UFCWU will consider all options available to it
including a strike or returning to work under IBP's last labor
contract proposal, a spokeswoman for Local 222 said by phone.
    About 2,800 UFCWU members have been locked out at the
Dakota City plant since December 14.
    IBP is a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4631>
The Agriculture Ministry said it set
Japan's beef import quota for the six months from April 1 at
93,000 tonnes, up from 83,000 in the second half of 1986/87 and
85,000 a year earlier.
    Under an agreement with the U.S. And Australia, Japan has
been increasing imports by 9,000 tonnes a year from March 31,
1985, to reach a projected 177,000 tonnes in the year to March
31, 1988.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4636>
Australian beef output is forecast to
decline to 1.34 mln tonnes carcass weight in 1987 and 1.36 mln
in 1988 from 1.44 mln in 1986, the Australian Meat and
Live-Stock Corp (AMLC) said.
    Exports of beef/veal are also predicted to decline to
480,000 tonnes shipped weight in 1987 from 515,000 in 1986, and
then rally to 490,000 in 1988, the AMLC said in a summary of
its bi-annual meat and livestock forecasts.
    It sees cattle numbers remaining at around the 1986 level
of 23.2 mln beasts in both years because herd rebuilding is
expected to be slower than previously forecast.
    Beef producers are becoming more confident that higher
returns in the market, both domestically and overseas, will
continue, the AMLC said.
    The slow herd build-up and the forecast lower production is
expected to bring about a slight drop in both export and
domestic consumption this year, it said.
    The forecast does not assume a turnaround in production
levels until late next year.
    It said the outlook for beef exports as a proportion of
output remains much the same as last year when it was around 55
pct of total production. In 1985 it was 52 pct.
    The increase in exports of beef as a percentage of
production has mainly been attributed to the decline in the
Australian dollar, the AMLC said.
    It also forecast that Australia's four major markets, the
U.S., Japan, Canada and Taiwan, will continue to dominate the
chilled and frozen beef export markets. They take collectively
around 94 pct of total Australian exports.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5009>
The American Meat Institute, AME,
said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliate
against a European Community meat inspection requirement.
    AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry would
file a petition challenging Korea's ban of U.S. meat products.
    Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME and
other livestock and farm groups intended to file a petition
under Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
against an EC directive that, effective April 30, will require
U.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.
    The meat industry will seek to have the U.S. government
retaliate against EC and Korean exports if their complaints are
upheld.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5031>
The American Meat Institute, AME,
said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliate
against a European Community meat inspection requirement.
    AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry would
file a petition challenging Korea's ban of U.S. meat products.
    Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME and
other livestock and farm groups intended to file a petition
under Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
against an EC directive that, effective April 30, will require
U.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.
  
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5445>
Members of the United Food and
Commercial Workers union, UFCW, local 222 voted Sunday to go on
strike against Iowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Nebraska,
plant, effective Tuesday.
    The company submitted their latest offer to the union at
the same time announcing that they would end the lockout as of
tomorrow that started December 14.
    Members unanimously rejected the latest company offer that
was submitted to the union late last week. An overwhelming
majority of the approximately 2,500 members attending the
meeting then voted to go on strike, UFCW union spokesman Allen
Zack said.
    Zack said the company's offer for a cut in wages was
unacceptable and said IBP was refusing to bargain in good
faith.
    IBP's latest offer included wage cuts of 60 cents an hour
for slaughter operations and a 45 cents an hour cut in pay for
processing workers. The cut follows the 1.07 dlr cut in pay
workers received in 1982 and the wage freeze that has lasted
since then, Zack said.
    The offer also eliminated overtime after eight hours
following the normal 40 hour work week, he added.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5487>
The United Food and Commercial Workers
union, Local 222 said its members voted Sunday to strike the
Iowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Neb., plant, effective
Tuesday.
    The company said it submitted its latest offer to the union
at the same time announcing that on Tuesday it would end a
lockout that started December 14.
    Union members unanimously rejected the latest company offer
that was submitted to the union late last week, UFCW union
spokesman Allen Zack said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5812>
The Agriculture Ministry is expected to
reduce official intervention prices for beef and pork in
1987/88 starting in April, but the cutback ratio has not been
set yet, industry sources said.
    Production prices, the basis for setting intervention
prices, have been falling because of declining compound feed
prices due to low coarse grain import prices, they said.
    Last November an advisory panel urged the government to
work on reducing officially set high farm product prices to
levels closer to international values, the sources added.
    In Japan the government maintains a price stabilisation
zone system for beef and pork to support domestic producers.
    The stabilisation zone is kept by the semi-government
Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) through a buffer stock
operation in the wholesale market.
    The 1987/88 beef and pork price stabilisation zone will be
set by the end of March after an advisory panel to the
Agriculture Ministry recommends the price zone at a meeting on
March 25, ministry officials said. At present, the standard or
bottom price of castrated wagyu beef, known as marbled beef, is
1,400 yen per kilo, while its ceiling is 1,820, they said.
    The standard price of other beef, mainly produced from
dairy steers, is now 1,090 yen per kilo and the ceiling is
1,420, the officials said. The pork standard price is now 540
yen per kilo and the ceiling 760.
    They said the domestic beef intervention price influences
imported beef selling prices on the domestic market.
    Japan sets an annual beef import quota. A semi-government
body imports most of this and releases it to wholesalers or
processors in line with the standard price of other beef
categories in an attempt to avoid jeoparadising domestic beef
prices, they said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5896>
Livestock analysts expect renewed bull
spreading in live cattle futures following yesterday's USDA
7-state cattle on feed report.
    The USDA reported high placements in February, which may
weigh on back months of cattle futures. Meanwhile, continued
strong marketings during the month will support the April
contract.
    Contracts for June delivery forward could open 25 to 50
cents lower while April will likely open about steady, analysts
said.
    Cheap corn is still the main incentive for putting cattle
on feed, according to Smith Barney livestock analyst Tom
O'Hare. "They have no place to send the grain," he said.
    Strong daily fundamentals may add to nearby support while
the current discount of deferred months to the cash market may
offset much of the effect of the report, analysts said.
    "The cash market is strong and may overshadow the report,"
said Robin Fuller, analyst for Agri Analysis. She added that
even though placements came in above the average trade guess,
many traders had expected high placements.
    Placements are not that negative, especially since the
technical correction in June and August live cattle futures
since last week, GH Miller analyst Jerry Gidel said.
    He said the current marketing posture will provide added
support to the nearby month. Feedlot marketings have been
running at a heavier than expected pace.
    Chuck Levitt, analyst for Shearson Lehman said that with
the number of cattle on feed down five pct at the beginning of
the year, a three pct decline in marketings was expected. But
the report for January showed marketings at 101 pct of a year
ago and in February marketings were at 100 pct, Levitt noted.
    "So far we haven't seen any decline in marketings. They
(feedlot operators) are marketing more cattle than they had
intended for the first quarter, which is a bullish
development," Levitt said.
    Gidel also noted that marketings for the early part of
March are running ahead of a year ago. Feedlots are not falling
behind and are holding that 100 pct marketing pace.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6269>
Seven major U.S. farm groups took
the unusual step of releasing a joint statement urging
congressional leaders not to tinker with existing farm law.
    Following meetings with House Agriculture Committee
Chairman Kika de la Garza (D-Tex.) and Senate Agriculture
Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), the groups issued a
statement saying lawmakers should "resist efforts to overhaul
the 15-month-old law, which is operating in its first crop
marketing year."
    The farm groups included the American Farm Bureau
Federation, American Soybean Association, National Cattlemen's
Association, National Corn Growers Association, National Cotton
Council, National Pork Producers Council and the U.S. Rice
Producers Legislative Group.
    The statement said Congress should not modify the 1985 farm
bill "so the law might have its intended impact of making
agriculture more competitive in export markets while at the
same time maintaining farm income."
    "We strongly believe American farmers now need
predictability and certainty in farm legislation in order to
have any opportunity of making proper production and marketing
decisions," the groups said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6317>
Iowa Beef Processors Inc said
"hundreds" of its employees returned to work at its Dakota
City, Nebraska beef processing plant without incident.
    Last week, Iowa Beef said it would lift a lockout in effect
at the plant since mid-December, which affected 2,800 members
of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union.
    Both union and non-union meatpackers who returned to work,
agreed to comply with Iowa Beef's last contract offer.
    "Start-up went well today and operations will continue to
pick up as employees return and others are hired," according to
a company statement. Picketing UFCWU members at the plant did
not disrupt operations, a company spokesman said.
    "Our employees are asked to continue to return to work at
8AM unless otherwise notified," he said.
    Iowa Beef, a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp, said
it is beginning to take applications for permanent positions at
the plant.
    
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6804>
Brazilian red meat production in
1986 fell more than 20 pct to 1.9 mln tonnes due to drought
which reduced slaughter weight and to herd rebuilding which
started because of high cattle prices, the U.S. Agriculture
Department said.
    In its report on World Production and Trade Developments,
USDA said that in 1987, beef production is expected to reach
2.3 mln tonnes.
    Pork production in 1986 rose 83 pct to 1.1 mln tonnes due
to the sharp rise in beef prices and is expected to remain at
that level this year, USDA said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8574>
U.S. Agriculture Secretary
Richard Lyng will ask the Japanese Government to remove all
beef import restrictions when he visits there next month.
    Lyng's remarks came in a speech at Oklahoma State
University today.
    "We think Japanese consumers should have the same freedom
of choice as our consumers. Look at all the Japanese cameras
and tape recorders in this room. We know they'd buy more beef
if they had the opportunity," Lyng said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8800>
Emergency action to distribute
European Community (EC) food surpluses to the poor has proved
so successful that the EC executive Commission may propose a
permanent scheme, a Commission spokesman said.
    Almost 60,000 tonnes of food was taken out of EC stores
between January 20, when Agriculture Ministers approved the
scheme, and March 13, according to latest commission figures.
    The food, including 30,000 tonnes of cereals, 6,000 tonnes
of sugar, 4,000 tonnes of beef and 13,300 tonnes of butter, has
been distributed to the needy through charities.
    The present scheme was approved as an emergency measure to
help poor people affected by this year's unusually cold winter
and will end on March 31.
    But the spokesman said the commission will consider whether
to propose it be replaced by an all-year-round system.
    The commission estimates that up to March 13 the temporary
scheme cost between 63 and 68 mln European currency units
(72/78 mln dlrs). This is above the 50 mln Ecu (57 mln dlr)
ceiling originally envisaged by the Ministers.
    However, commission sources said the real cost was small if
account is taken of the expense of keeping food in store until
its quality and value deteriorates.
    On the other hand, the impact of the temporary scheme on EC
food surpluses has been slight. EC surplus food stocks at
January 31 included 1.28 mln tonnes of butter, 520,000 tonnes
of beef and over 10 mln tonnes of cereals.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9060>
Leading U.S. farm state senators are
seeking to insert into the Senate's omnibus trade bill a
provision that would broaden eligibility requirements under the
U.S. Agriculture Department's export enhancement program, EEP,
to include traditional buyers of U.S. farm products, including
the Soviet Union, Senate staff said.
    Under existing criteria, USDA can offer EEP subsidies to
recoup export markets lost to competing nations' unfair trading
practices.
    Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.)
is leading a group of farm state senators in an effort to
broaden the criteria in such a way as to enable Moscow to be
eligible for the subsidies, sources said.
    The senators -- including Senate Finance Committee Chairman
Lloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), David Pryor
(D-Ark.), John Melcher (D-Mont.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) --
also may fold into the trade bill a measure to shield pork
producers and processors from Canadian imports.
    The measure, sponsored by Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa),
would clarify the definition of "industry" in determining whether
or not imports were causing injury to U.S. producers.
    Grassley's bill stems from a 1985 decision by the
International Trade Commission that imports from Canada of live
swine -- but not fresh, chilled and frozen pork -- were harming
U.S. producers.
    The bill's proponents have argued Canada has simply
replaced shipments of live hogs with fresh pork.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9754>
Japan's plan to cut beef intervention
prices for the fiscal year starting April 1 will not boost
demand because of strict supply controls and a complex
distribution system, Japanese and U.S. Industry sources said.
    "Government beef policy protects farmers rather than meeting
consumers' demands and the cutback ... Is too marginal," a
Housewives Association of Japan official said.
    Despite mounting U.S. Pressure on Japan to open farm
markets, beef is strictly controlled by the government, which
maintains a price stabilisation zone to protect farmers.
    Under the plan, expected to be announced this month, the
standard or bottom price of castrated wagyu -- known as marbled
beef -- will be set at 1,370 yen per kilo for 1987/88 against
1,400 now, and the ceiling at 1,780 yen against 1,820.
    The standard price of other beef, mainly produced from
dairy steers, is set at 1,020 yen against 1,090 and the ceiling
at 1,325 against 1,420.
    Ministry officials said the semi-government Livestock
Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) conducts buffer stock operations
to help keep wholesale beef prices within the intervention
price zone.
    The LIPC is allowed to import most beef, with the amount
set by the government under a quota system. When wholesale
prices go above the ceiling, the LIPC releases its beef stocks,
both domestic and imported, and buys locally produced beef when
prices are below.
    But the LIPC has often been criticised for releasing beef
stocks when the prices are higher than the ceiling.
    Phillip Seng, Asian Director of the U.S. Meat Export
Federation, told Reuters the two pct cut in prices is a step
toward closing the gap with European Community prices, about
half those in Japan.
    But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S.
Meat exporters because of Japan's rigid and complicated
distribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.
    The Housewives Association official said retail beef prices
are high mainly because of distribution problems and high
production costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.
    American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C.
Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the Japan
Times beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound in
the U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.
    But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S.
Meat exporters because of Japan's rigid and complicated
distribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.
    The Housewives Association official said retail beef prices
are high mainly because of distribution problems and high
production costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.
    American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C.
Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the Japan
Times beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound in
the U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.
    But industry sources said it is unclear how much demand
will pick up if retail beef prices drop following any sharp
reduction in intervention prices.
    U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said this week he
will ask Japan to remove all beef import restrictions when he
visits here next month.
    In 1984, Japan decided to increase its beef import quota by
9,000 tonnes a year until March 31, 1988.
    In 1987/88, the quota will rise to 177,000 tonnes from
168,000 in 1986/87, ministry officials said, adding Japan wants
to keep self-sufficiency in beef at around 70 pct.
 REUTER
</BODY>
