<BODY DOCID=10712>
Newly-installed Philippine Coconut
Authority Chairman Jose Romero has announced the appointment of
lawyer Leandro Garcia as administrator, replacing Colonel Felix
Duenas who is returning to military duty.
    The new constitution does not allow military men to hold
positions in civilian agencies.
    Duenas and four other military men who were assigned to the
authority in 1978, will return to the ministry of defence where
they worked prior to their appointments at the coconut agency.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10720>
Philippine coconut oil exports to Europe
would be virtually wiped out if the European Community (EC)
implements a new tax on vegetable oils, Philippine Coconut
Authority (PCA) chairman Jose Romero said.
    But he told reporters he did not think the EC would impose
the tax because of objections from the U.S.
    "There's just so much flak coming from many countries,
spearheaded by the United States, whose soybean exports would
be adversely affected. This would spark a trade war," he said.
    The tax, to be imposed from July, would add about 375 dlrs
a tonne to vegetable oils entering the EC.
    The Philippines exported 43,540 tonnes of coconut oil worth
11.7 mln dlrs to Europe in January, against total exports of
86,959 tonnes worth 23.8 mln. It also exports copra and copra
meal.
    Agriculture Secretary Carlos Dominguez has also raised
objections to the proposed EC tax.
    He said it could cause the collapse of world demand and
prices and destroy the domestic industry.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11836>
The Sri Lankan cabinet approved
recommendations to upgrade the quality of coconut fibre
products, the government said.
    It said the recommendations also suggested that
encouragement be given for the manufacture of value-added
products from coconut fibre and a market development programme
be launched for traditional and value-added products.
    It also suggested the setting up of a marketing mission on
coconut fibre to be sent this month to principal target
markets.
    Sri Lanka is the world's second largest exporter of
dessicated coconut after the Philippines.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8112>
Coconut product exports fell to 163,924
copra tonnes in January from 196,610 tonnes in December and
167,747 tonnes in January last year, government figures show.
    Coconut product sales earned 44.54 mln dlrs compared with
45.30 mln in December and 49.09 mln a year earlier.
 REUTER
</BODY>
