<BODY DOCID=10604>
The average weekly earnings of U.S.
workers after adjustment for inflation and seasonal changes
rose 0.6 pct in February after being unchanged in January, the
Labor department said.
    The department had earlier reported that real earnings fell
0.3 pct in January but revised the figure to show earnings
unchanged.
    Between February this year and February, 1986, real
earnings rose 0.5 pct, the department said.
    The rise in February real earnings resulted from a 0.5 pct
increase in average hourly earnings and a 0.6 pct increase in
average weekly hours. That was partly offset by a 0.4 pct rise
in the consumer price index, which measures inflation, the
department said.
    Before seasonal adjustment, weekly earnings last month
averaged 307.59 dlrs, up from 305.13 dlrs in January and up
from 300.66 dlrs in February, 1986.
 Reuter...
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2618>
Momentum in th U.S. economy may be
picking up given solid across-the board increases in the
February U.S. employment report, economists said.
    U.S. non-farm payroll employment rose 337,000 in February,
twice what the financial markets expected. This follows a
319,000 gain in January, revised down from a previously
reported 448,000 increase.
    "Even if you look at January and February together, this is
still a much stronger report than the consensus expectation in
the market," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation.
    Economists stressed that gains in hours worked signal much
larger gains in February U.S. production and income than
previously forecast.
    The average work week rose 0.2 hours to 35.0 hours from
34.8 hours in January. The average manufacturing work week rose
0.3 hours to 41.2 hours, the longest factory work week since
November 1966, the Commerce Department said.
    "The gains in manufacturing employment point to a very
large increase in industrial production of between 0.5 and 0.7
pct," said Joe Carson of Chemical Bank. This compares to a 0.4
pct  gain in January U.S. industrial production.
    Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Inc
noted that the average wage rate increased to 8.87 dlrs an hour
in February from 8.83 dlrs in January.
    "Combined with the increase in hours worked, this means
we'll get a pretty healthy gain in personal income vis-a-vis
the wage and salary disbursement," he said.
    Greenbaum said that February U.S. personal income should
rise at least 0.5 pct after being flat in January.
    He said the February employment gains are consistent with
his firm's first quarter U.S. real gross national product
growth forecast of 3.7 pct.
    Economists agreed that the employment data were negative
for the credit markets in that they signal a healthier economy
and no easing in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy. But
most said that the market need not fear tighter policy either.
    "This report is another reason for the Fed to not consider
easing," said Ray Stone of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc.  
  "It gives them more room to address the dollar situation," he
said. "If they had to nudge policy tighter, they could do so,
but it's most likely they'll sit and wait."
    "The data have not been uniform," Stone added. "Durable
goods were weak in January and now employment is strong."
    In January, U.S. durable goods orders dropped 7.5 pct,
followed by a 4.0 pct drop in U.S. factory goods orders. U.S.
retail sales fell 5.8 pct, and the U.S. merchandise trade gap
widened to 14.8 billion dlrs.
    "Things just aren't adding up," said Steve Slifer of Lehman
Goverment Securities Inc. "Consumer spending, capital spending,
goverment spending, and net exports data show very weak first
quarter GNP growth of one pct," he said.
    "The employment and production data point to a big
inventory build-up, but that's what we thought in the fourth
quarter and we only got 1.3 pct GNP growth."
    Manufacturing employment gained 50,000 after falling 15,000
in January. Economists estimated that 30,000 of the gain was
accounted for by striking workers in the steel and machinery
industries returning to work.
    Even so, some economists said that the manufacturing gains
have resulted from an improving trade outlook.
    Jason Benderly of Goldman, Sachs and Co noted that the U.S.
trade picture improved in the fourth quarter as net exports
grew at a 20 pct annual rate while the rate of increase in
imports fell to only six pct, and that it continues to improve
in the first quarter.
    "Not only the official statistics for the fourth quarter,
but evidence of a pick up in orders from overseas for paper
products, chemicals, high-tech goods, and capital goods show
that trade is improving," Benderley said.
    "The economy is moving between extremes," he said. "Some
reports are going to look bad and some good, but first quarter
GNP is going to grow in the middle at about three pct."
    A 287,000 gain in services employment comprised the greater
part of February's employment gain. Retail services employment
rose 129,000 in February, compared to a gain of 117,000 in
January, previously reported at 166,000.
    Construction employment rose a slim 2,000 in February. But
this follows a robust 113,000 gain in January, revised down
from a previously reported 142,000 gain.
    The U.S. civilian unemployment rate was unchanged in
February at 6.7 pct. This means the jobless rate has stayed at
6.7 pct for three consecutive months, the lowest reading since
March 1980, the Commerce Department noted.
    "The Federal Reserve has to be pleased with this report,"
Carson said. "This takes away the Fed's flexibility to ease,
but there's no reason to tighten. It's way too early for that."
      
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7015>
U.K. Average earnings rose a seasonally
adjusted 7.6 pct in the year to end-January after a 7.4 pct
rise in the year to December, the Department of Employment
said.
    The underlying rise was 7.5 pct after 7.75 pct in December.
    The January index, base 1980, was set at a provisional
seasonally adjusted 190.4, down from 193.4 in December.
    The underlying rise, adjusted for factors such as back-pay
and timing variations, had been steady at 7.5 pct from October
1985 to October 1986.
    Unit wage costs in U.K. Manufacturing industry rose 3.3 pct
in the three months to end January, on a year-on-year basis,
after a 3.1 pct rise in the three months to end December, the
Department of Employment said.
    In January, the unit wage rise in manufacturing industries
was 3.6 pct, unchanged from the December rise.
    The Department said the decline in the underlying rate of
rise in earnings reflected the reduced significance of bonus
payments in January compared with December.
    The actual increase reflected teacher pay settlements and
industrial action in the transport and communications sectors
in January 1987.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7036>
Brisk increases in personal income and
consumption are to appear in February data released today, but
the bond market's recent sluggishness suggests there will be no
major price reaction unless the rises are much larger than
expected, economists said.
    Personal income is forecast to rise by 0.6 to 0.8 pct,
compared with no change in January, while consumption
expenditures are projected to increase 1.4 to 1.6 pct,
reversing most of the two pct drop recorded in January.
    M-1 money supply data for the March 9 week will also be
released. An increase of some 2.3 billion dlrs is expected.    
    Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney, Harris Upham and Co Inc
expects a one pct rise in income, led by a strong gain in wage
and salary disbursements in February.
    Nonfarm payrolls expanded by 337,000 jobs in February, the
average workweek lengthened by 0.6 pct and hourly wages rose by
four cts, he noted in a report. Vigorous spending on durable
goods last month, especially cars, foreshadow a rise of at
least 1.5 pct in consumption, he added.
    The prospect of bearish data did not trouble the bond
market much yesterday, with the 30-year Treasury bond slipping
just 7/32 to 99-28/32 for a yield of 7.51 pct.
    Analysts said the market is still trapped in a narrow
range, desperately seeking direction.
    "Seasonally adjusted, it's already December in the bond
market," quipped Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities Co
International Inc.
    Paul Boltz of T. Rowe Price Associates Inc said the
steadiness of long bond yields around 7.5 pct, despite some
signs of a stronger economy, probably reflects expectations
that inflation will remain subdued.
    But he warned that this assumption might not be justified.
    "It took the bond market a long while to see that inflation
was not returning to double digits, and now that it has learned
that lesson, it may be a little slow to see that a four to five
pct inflation is a real possibility ahead," Boltz said in a
report.
    After trading late yesterday at 5-15/16 pct, Fed funds were
indicated by brokers to open comfortably at 5-15/16, six pct.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7099>
U.S. personal income rose 0.9 pct,
or 32.4 billion dlrs, in February to a seasonally adjusted
annual rate of 3,581.3 billion dlrs, the Commerce Department
said.
    The increase followed a revised 0.2 pct rise in personal
income during January. Earlier, the department estimated
January personal income was unchanged.
    The February incomes rise was the largest monthly increase
since a 1.2 pct rise in April 1986, the department said. It
attributed last month's rise to several factors, including
subsidy payments to farmers and government pay raises.
    The department said personal consumption expenditures were
up during February by 1.7 pct or 49.1 billion dlrs to 2,855.9
billion dlrs after falling by 58.4 billion dlrs or two pct in
January.
    Purchases of durable goods were up 24.8 billion dlrs last
month after decreasing by 69.7 billion dlrs in January with
sales of motor vehicles accounting for most of the February
increase and the January decline, the department said.
    Purchases of nondurables rose 10.7 billion dlrs in February
after a 300 mln dlr increase in January.
    The Commerce Department said wage and salary incomes were
up 15.6 billion dlrs in February after an 8.6 billion dlr rise
in January.
    Manufacturing payrolls increased by 2.4 billion dlrs last
month after rising 1.9 billion dlrs in February with the gains
widespread through durable and nondurable industries, the
department said.
    Farmers' incomes increased by 12.2 billion dlrs in February
after declining by 8.7 billion dlrs in January. Both last
month's increase and January's fall in farm incomes was because
of government subsidy payments, the department said.
    Personal tax and nontax payments fell 5.5 billion dlrs in
February following a 19.5 billion dlrs January drop. The 
declines were a result of the Tax Reform Act of 1986.
    Federal withheld income taxes were up in February from a
month earlier but that was offset by declines in federal
nonwithheld taxes and lower state and local income taxes.
    Disposable personal income in February after taxes was up
1.2 pct or 37.8 billion dlrs to 3,063.4 billion dlrs after
rising 25.8 billion dlrs in January.
    The personal savings rate eased to 3.6 pct in February from
four pct in January, the department said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
