<BODY DOCID=450>
Canada's industrial product price index
rose 0.2 pct in January after falling 0.2 pct in each of the
two previous months, Statistics Canada said.
    The rise was led by price gains for papers, pharmaceuticals
and petroleum and coal products. Price declines were recorded
for meat products, lumber and motor vehicles.
    On a year over year basis, the federal agency said the
index fell 0.9 pct in January, the largest yearly decline on
record.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1079>
European Community industrial output
increased by an average of around two pct last year, compared
with 3.3 pct growth recorded in 1985 against a year earlier,
the EC statistics office Eurostat said.
    Growth was highest in Portugal at five pct, while in Greece
output contracted by 0.3 pct, Eurostat said in a statement.
    Eurostat noted output growth also fell in the U.S. And
Japan. U.S. Production increased 1.1 pct after 2.0 pct in 1985,
while in Japan output contracted by 0.5 pct after rising 4.5
pct a year earlier.
    Eurostat said EC industrial production in December rose 3.1
pct compared with 12 months earlier but added that after
adjustment for seasonal factors, output growth had been clearly
slowing down since the beginning of the summe
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1158>
Canadian industrial production rose 2.53
pct in December after falling 0.51 pct in November, Statistics
Canada said.
    The federal agency said year-over-year production was off
0.65 pct in December, compared with a decline of 1.65 pct in
November.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10230>
The Soviet economy has grown at an
increased rate under Mikhail Gorbachev's leadership, but his
goals may be too ambitious, according to a report from U.S.
intelligence agencies.
    The report was prepared jointly by the Central Intelligence
Agency and the Defense Intelligence Agency for the
Congressional Joint Economic committee, which released it.
    It said the Soviet economy grew by 4.2 pct in 1986,
Gorbachev's first full year in power, twice the average rate of
growth over the previous 10 years.
    Gorbachev's policies to improve worker attitudes, remove
incompetent officials, reduce corruption and alcoholism and
modernize the country's industrial equipment accounted for some
of the gains, the report said.
    "Although many of the specific policies Gorbachev has
adopted are not new, the intensity Gorbachev has brought to his
efforts and his apparent commitment to finding long-term
solutions are attributes that his immediate predecessors
lacked. Nonetheless, Gorbachev's program appears too ambitious
on a number of counts," the report said.
    Earlier this week, two U.S. experts on the Soviet Union
said Gorbachev was likely to be ousted in three to four years
if he continues his reform policies.
    "I don't think he can last four years," Marshall Goldman of
Harvard University told a Congressional hearing. "He's moving so
fast, he's stepping on so many toes."
    A similar comment came from Peter Reddaway of the
Smithsonian Institution's Kennan Institute for Advanced Russian
studies.
    The economic report said meeting targets for commodity
output would require unrealistic gains in productivity and
industrial output targets appear too high to allow time to
install more advanced equipment.
    None of Gorbachev's proposals would change the system of
economic incentives that has discouraged innovation and
technological change, the report added.
    "The first significant resistance to specific policies,
although not overall goals, surfaced (in 1986) in both the
massive government and party bureaucracy, particularly among
enterprise managers who complained that they were being asked
to carry out conflicting goals -- such as to raise quality
standards and output targets simultaneously," the report said.
    The CIA-DIA report predicted two to three pct growth in the
Soviet economy over the next several years. It said the Soviet
Union trailed the U.S. by seven to 12 years in advanced
manufacturing technologies, such as computers and
microprocessors.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10285>
Japan's industrial production index (base
1980) rose 0.3 pct to a seasonally adjusted 122.7 in February
from the previous month, the Ministry of International Trade
and Industry said.
    Output fell 0.5 pct in January from a month earlier.
    The preliminary, unadjusted February index rose 0.6 pct
from a year earlier after a 0.5 pct year-on-year rise in
January
    The adjusted February producers' shipment index (base 1980)
rose 0.7 pct to 118.5 from January when it fell 0.7 pct from
December.
    The unadjusted shipment index rose 1.4 pct from a year
earlier after a 1.0 pct year-on-year January gain.
    The adjusted February index of producers' finished goods
(base 1980) fell 1.3 pct to 104.5 from January when it fell 0.3
pct from December.
    The unadjusted index fell 3.5 pct from a year earlier after
a 2.3 pct year-on-year drop in January.
    A 2.7 pct rise by the electronics industry on higher output
of facsimile machines and video tape recorders was a major
contributor to the rise in February industrial output, though
car production fell from January.
    The official said industrial production is expected to rise
3.2 pct in March on higher production by machinery, steel and
chemical makers but will drop 3.4 pct in April on a downturn in
the output of those industries. He gave no further details.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10314>
Industrial production, excluding
construction and adjusted for the number of working days, fell
1.5 pct in December from year earlier levels, the National
Statistics Office said.
    It was also a sharp 16.8 pct below the November level, it
said.
    The office said the production index, base 1980, stood at
97.3 in December against an adjusted 116.9 in November and 98.8
in December 1985.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10520>
Hungary's economy and hard currency
trade have failed so far this year to reverse a two-year
unfavourable trend, the official Hungarian news agency MTI
said.
    Industrial production in January and February was only 1.3
pct up on the same 1986 period, MTI said, while hard currency
exports fell six pct as imports rose 10 pct.
    Hungary's hard currency trade fell into a deficit of 539.4
mln dlrs last year from a surplus of 295.3 mln in 1985 and 1.2
billion in 1984.
    MTI quoted a government spokesman saying last December's
wage freeze decree would expire on April 1 as envisaged.
    Gross domestic product grew a sluggish one pct in 1986
after stagnating in 1985 and growing 2.6 pct in 1984.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11379>
The Canadian industrial product price
index, base 1981, fell 0.2 pct in February after rising 0.2 pct
in January, Statistics Canada said.
    "A significant part of this monthly decrease was
attributable to the impact of the increase of the Canadian
dollar on prices for wood pulps, newspaper, aluminum, nickel
and motor vehicles," the federal agency said.
    On a year-over-year basis, the index was down 0.8 pct,
little change from the 0.9 pct decline posted in January.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12407>
West German industrial production,
seasonally adjusted, rose a provisional 3.2 pct in February
after a downwards revised decline of 3.4 pct in January, the
Economics Ministry said.
    The ministry had originally estimated that industrial
production fell 3.0 pct in January.
    The February figure is likely to be revised upwards by just
under one percentage point next month when the March figure is
released, a ministry statement said.
    The industrial production index, base 1980, stood at a
provisional 104.1 in February against 100.9 in January and
104.5 in December. The ministry had previously put the January
and December indices at 101.6 and 104.7 respectively.
    In February 1986 the output index had stood at 103.7,
producing a year-on-year rise for February 1987 of 0.4 pct.
    The February rise in production was aided by a sharp 19 pct
increase in construction output compared with January, when
production in many industrial sectors was depressed by
unusually severe winter weather.
    Manufacturing industry registered a 3-1/2 pct rise in
production in February compared with January. But energy sector
output fell nine pct and mining production declined seven pct.
    The ministry, which considers two-monthly comparisons to be
a better guide to trends, said output in January and February
together fell around two pct against November and December.
    The ministry said construction output fell 13-1/2 pct in
January/February against November/December due to the cold
January weather. Output in the energy sector rose four pct and
mining output 10 pct.
    Manufacturing industry's production fell 1-1/2 pct in
January/February compared with November/December.
    Within this sector, the output of both basic products and
of food, tobacco and alcohol fell 1-1/2 pct. Production of
capital goods fell 2-1/2 pct while output of consumer goods was
unchanged.
    Compared with the same months of 1986, industrial
production in January and February 1987 fell 1-1/2 pct, the
ministry said.
    Manufacturing industry output fell one pct, with output of
basic products down three pct, capital goods down one pct and
food, tobacco and alcohol production 1-1/2 pct lower. Makers of
consumer goods posted a 1-1/2 pct year-on-year rise in the
two-month period.
    In other industrial sectors, mining production fell four
pct and construction output 4-1/2 pct. The energy sector saw a
slight 1/2 pct rise, the ministry added.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12466>
West German industrial production,
seasonally adjusted, rose a provisional 3.2 pct in February
after a downwards revised decline of 3.4 pct in January, the
Economics Ministry said.
    The ministry had originally estimated that industrial
production fell 3.0 pct in January.
    The February figure is likely to be revised upwards by just
under one percentage point next month when the March figure is
released, a ministry statement said.
    The industrial production index, base 1980, stood at a
provisional 104.1 in February against 100.9 in January and
104.5 in December. The ministry had previously put the January
and December indices at 101.6 and 104.7 respectively.
    In February 1986 the output index had stood at 103.7,
producing a year-on-year rise for February 1987 of 0.4 pct.
    The February rise in production was aided by a sharp 19 pct
increase in construction output compared with January, when
production in many industrial sectors was depressed by
unusually severe winter weather.
    Manufacturing industry registered a 3-1/2 pct rise in
production in February compared with January. But energy sector
output fell nine pct and mining production declined seven pct.
    The ministry, which considers two-monthly comparisons to be
a better guide to trends, said output in January and February
together fell around two pct against November and December.
    The ministry said construction output fell 13-1/2 pct in
January/February against November/December due to the cold
January weather. Output in the energy sector rose four pct and
mining output 10 pct.
    Manufacturing industry's production fell 1-1/2 pct in
January/February compared with November/December.
    Within this sector, the output of both basic products and
of food, tobacco and alcohol fell 1-1/2 pct. Production of
capital goods fell 2-1/2 pct while output of consumer goods was
unchanged.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12771>
Swiss inflation is likely to rise in 1987
and 1988 because of inflationary tendencies in the domestic
economy, the Centre for Economic Research of the Federal
Institute of Technology said in its spring review.
    It forecast a rise in consumer prices of two pct in 1988
compared with 1.3 pct in 1987. Low import prices in 1986 helped
to keep annual inflation down to 0.8 pct.
    The centre said that in general the outlook for the Swiss
economy in 1987 and 1988 remained favourable, despite the more
difficult international economic climate facing export
industry.
    The centre repeated its previous forecast that growth in
Swiss domestic product would slow to 2.2 pct in 1987 from 2.5
pct in 1986. It revised its forecast for 1988 GDP growth to 1.7
pct from 1.6 pct in its last autumn review.
    Domestic demand will continue to replace exports as the
motor of economic growth. Private consumption will grow by
three pct in 1987 and two pct in 1988 against 3.75 pct in 1986.
    Growth in goods exports will slow to 1.75 pct in 1987 from
2.1 pct in 1986 but pick up slightly to 2.5 pct in 1988. All
three figures are well below the Swiss average for recent
years. In 1985, for example, exports increased by 9.1 pct.
    The centre said the strength of the Swiss franc, which has
firmed sharply in recent months, would continue to put pressure
on Swiss exporters.
    It forecast that imports of goods would grow by a more
modest 4.5 pct in 1987 and 3.25 pct in 1988 than in 1986, when
import prices fell substantially and imports rose by 8.2 pct.
    Industrial production will grow by 1.6 pct in 1987 and 1.2
pct in 1988 compared with 4.2 pct in 1986.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13238>
Production in the manufactured goods
industry has been falling since mid-1986 and will decline by
between one and two pct this year after a 2.5 pct increase in
1986, the Ifo economic institute said.
    An Ifo report said recessionary influences were affecting
the engineering industry particularly. It saw a decline of two
to three pct in this sector after a 5.2 pct rise in 1986.
    Orders, especially from abroad, were also falling sharply
for capital goods in the electronics sector, it added.
    Ifo also predicted stagnation in the automobile industry in
1987 after a particularly successful 1986 when production rose
5.1 pct.
    Chemical industry production, which fell by 0.9 pct last
year, was likely to stagnate or decline by one pct in 1987.
This sector suffered from slack demand from abroad and from low
domestic consumption.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13559>
Industrial production in the European
Community (EC) in January showed no growth compared with
January 1986, the EC statistics office, Eurostat, said in a
report.
    It said the EC industrial production index, base 1980,
stood at 103.9 in both months.
    EC officials said while the lack of growth may have been
due in part to the icy weather which gripped large parts of the
EC in January, it also reflects a worrying trend.
    Eurostat said for the last three months for which figures
are known, industrial output rose by only 0.9 pct compared with
the year-earlier period.
    Annual growth in the 12 months to January averaged about
1.8 pct, well below the 2.8 pct figure recorded in the 12
months ending last June, the office said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2618>
Momentum in th U.S. economy may be
picking up given solid across-the board increases in the
February U.S. employment report, economists said.
    U.S. non-farm payroll employment rose 337,000 in February,
twice what the financial markets expected. This follows a
319,000 gain in January, revised down from a previously
reported 448,000 increase.
    "Even if you look at January and February together, this is
still a much stronger report than the consensus expectation in
the market," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation.
    Economists stressed that gains in hours worked signal much
larger gains in February U.S. production and income than
previously forecast.
    The average work week rose 0.2 hours to 35.0 hours from
34.8 hours in January. The average manufacturing work week rose
0.3 hours to 41.2 hours, the longest factory work week since
November 1966, the Commerce Department said.
    "The gains in manufacturing employment point to a very
large increase in industrial production of between 0.5 and 0.7
pct," said Joe Carson of Chemical Bank. This compares to a 0.4
pct  gain in January U.S. industrial production.
    Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Inc
noted that the average wage rate increased to 8.87 dlrs an hour
in February from 8.83 dlrs in January.
    "Combined with the increase in hours worked, this means
we'll get a pretty healthy gain in personal income vis-a-vis
the wage and salary disbursement," he said.
    Greenbaum said that February U.S. personal income should
rise at least 0.5 pct after being flat in January.
    He said the February employment gains are consistent with
his firm's first quarter U.S. real gross national product
growth forecast of 3.7 pct.
    Economists agreed that the employment data were negative
for the credit markets in that they signal a healthier economy
and no easing in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy. But
most said that the market need not fear tighter policy either.
    "This report is another reason for the Fed to not consider
easing," said Ray Stone of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc.  
  "It gives them more room to address the dollar situation," he
said. "If they had to nudge policy tighter, they could do so,
but it's most likely they'll sit and wait."
    "The data have not been uniform," Stone added. "Durable
goods were weak in January and now employment is strong."
    In January, U.S. durable goods orders dropped 7.5 pct,
followed by a 4.0 pct drop in U.S. factory goods orders. U.S.
retail sales fell 5.8 pct, and the U.S. merchandise trade gap
widened to 14.8 billion dlrs.
    "Things just aren't adding up," said Steve Slifer of Lehman
Goverment Securities Inc. "Consumer spending, capital spending,
goverment spending, and net exports data show very weak first
quarter GNP growth of one pct," he said.
    "The employment and production data point to a big
inventory build-up, but that's what we thought in the fourth
quarter and we only got 1.3 pct GNP growth."
    Manufacturing employment gained 50,000 after falling 15,000
in January. Economists estimated that 30,000 of the gain was
accounted for by striking workers in the steel and machinery
industries returning to work.
    Even so, some economists said that the manufacturing gains
have resulted from an improving trade outlook.
    Jason Benderly of Goldman, Sachs and Co noted that the U.S.
trade picture improved in the fourth quarter as net exports
grew at a 20 pct annual rate while the rate of increase in
imports fell to only six pct, and that it continues to improve
in the first quarter.
    "Not only the official statistics for the fourth quarter,
but evidence of a pick up in orders from overseas for paper
products, chemicals, high-tech goods, and capital goods show
that trade is improving," Benderley said.
    "The economy is moving between extremes," he said. "Some
reports are going to look bad and some good, but first quarter
GNP is going to grow in the middle at about three pct."
    A 287,000 gain in services employment comprised the greater
part of February's employment gain. Retail services employment
rose 129,000 in February, compared to a gain of 117,000 in
January, previously reported at 166,000.
    Construction employment rose a slim 2,000 in February. But
this follows a robust 113,000 gain in January, revised down
from a previously reported 142,000 gain.
    The U.S. civilian unemployment rate was unchanged in
February at 6.7 pct. This means the jobless rate has stayed at
6.7 pct for three consecutive months, the lowest reading since
March 1980, the Commerce Department noted.
    "The Federal Reserve has to be pleased with this report,"
Carson said. "This takes away the Fed's flexibility to ease,
but there's no reason to tighten. It's way too early for that."
      
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2990>
Swiss industrial output rose nine pct in
the fourth quarter last year after a four pct third quarter
decline, and was up three pct from the final three months of
1985, the Federal Office of Industry, Trade and Labour said.
    For the full year 1986 the index, base 1963, stood at 166
after up four pct from the 159 recorded the previous year.
    Incoming orders gained four pct in the quarter after a five
pct third quarter fall and were up one pct from the year
earlier level. In the full year they gained one pct. The order
backlog fell eight pct, the third straight quarterly decline
and ended three pct under the year earlier level.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2995>
The value of China's industrial output in
January and February this year was 14.1 pct higher than in the
same 1986 period, the New China News Agency said.
    Output increased by 5.6 pct from January 1985 to January
1986 and 0.9 pct from February 1985 to 1986.
    The agency said the most recent increase was largely due to
last year's poor performance. "No significant improvement was
made in economic results," it said, adding that some successes
were reported in readjusting the industrial product mix in the
last quarter of 1986.
    The agency said the amount of tied up working capital rose
and sizeable funds were occupied by unsaleable goods in 1986.
    It quoted unnamed economists as saying they expect 1987
industrial production to increase at a proper rate and with
better results, due to a cost-efficiency drive underway
throughout the country. It gave no more details.
    The official industrial growth target this year is seven
pct, down from an actual 9.2 pct last year.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4005>
U.S. economic data this week could be
the key in determining whether U.S. interest rate futures break
out of a 3-1/2 month trading range, financial analysts said.
    Although market expectations are for February U.S. retail
sales Thursday and industrial production Friday to show healthy
gains, figures within or slightly below expectations would be
positive for the market, the analysts said.
    "You have to be impressed with the resiliency of bonds
right now," said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig
Sloane.
    Treasury bond futures came under pressure today which
traders linked to a persistently firm federal funds rate and a
rise in oil prices. However, when sufficient selling interest
to break below chart support in the June contract failed to
materialize, participants who had sold bond futures early
quickly covered short positions, they said.
    "Everyone is expecting strong numbers, and if they come in
as expected it won't be that bad for the market," Sloane said.
    Sloane said the consensus estimate for the non-auto sector
of retail sales is for a rise of 0.6 to 0.7 pct.
    Dean Witter analyst Karen Gibbs said a retail sales figure
below market forecasts would give a boost to debt futures, and
she put the range for the non-auto sector of retail sales at up
0.8 to 1.2 pct.
    Industrial production and the producer price index Friday
both are expected to show increases of about 0.5 pct, she
added.
    Retail sales "will tell us whether or not we will be able
to fill the gap," Gibbs said, referring to a chart gap in June
bonds between 100-26/32 and 101-3/32 created Friday. June bonds
closed at 100-4/32 today.
    Also key to debt futures direction, in addition to the
federal funds rate, is the direction of crude oil prices, said
Carroll McEntee and McGinley Futures analyst Brian Singer.
    "A higher fed funds rate and firm oil prices precluded the
market from breaking out of the trading range the last time the
market approached the top of the range," Singer said.
    In order for bonds to break above the top of the range,
which is just below 102 in the June contract, "the crude oil
rally needs to run its course and pull back a little bit,"
Singer said. "Fed funds are already easing back down toward the
six pct level."
    The recent surge in oil prices has also been a concern to
Manufacturers Hanover Futures analyst Jim Rozich, but the rally
may be nearing a top around 18.50 dlrs per barrel, he said.
    Rozich said he is looking for the June bond contract to
ease to 99-6/32 and find support.
    "I'm not quite ready to jump on the bullish bandwagon yet.
The jury is still out this week," Rozich said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4771>
U.S. industrial production rose 0.5
pct in February after a revised 0.1 pct increase in January,
the Federal Reserve Board said.
    The Fed previously said industrial production rose 0.4 pct
in January.
    The Fed said the February gain was dominated by a sharp
rise in motor vehicle production, which boosted output of both
consumer goods and business equipment. Industrial production
stood at 127.3 pct of the 1977 average in February and was up
1.7 pct from a year ago, the Fed said.
    The Fed also revised the December industrial production
figure to a gain of 0.5 pct from 0.3 pct originally reported.
    Manufacturing output rose 0.5 pct in February after a 0.1
pct increase in January and included gains of 0.8 pct in
durables and 0.1 pct in non-durables, the Fed said.
    Manufacturing was 2.4 pct above the year ago level.
    Production of auto assemblies rose to an annual rate of 8.3
mln units last month from a January rate of 7.5 mln units.
    Output of consumer goods rose 0.6 pct after falling 0.3 pct
in January and output of consumer durables was up 2.1 pct in
February after falling by 2.0 pct in January.
    Business equipment production rose 1.0 pct in February,
reflecting more output of autos and trucks for business use and
a recovery from strikes in farm equipment industries, the Fed
said.
    Mining output rose 0.1 pct after a 1.6 pct increase in
January, but was still six pct lower than a year ago.
    Utilities output rose 0.7 pct in February after a 1.2 pct
rise in January.
    Output of defense and space equipment was up 0.4 pct, the
same as in January, and 6.2 pct higher than a year ago.
    Output of construction supplies rose 0.2 pct in February
after a 1.5 pct January rise.
    Materials output increased by 0.2 pct last month, the
fourth consecutive monthly increase after declining throughout
much of 1986. The recent strength in materials has been
concentrated in textiles, paper and chemicals, the Fed said.
    Output of home goods was up 0.3 pct in February and the Fed
said production of items like appliances and furniture
continued strong last month.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4944>
U.S. February reports reflecting slim
gains in industrial output and moderating inflation pressures
reinforced expectations that the Federal Reserve will continue
to follow a stable course of monetary policy, economists said.
    "If you're the Fed, there's no reason to do anything," said
Steve Slifer of Lehman Government Securities Inc.
    "There are hints that GNP is picking up. On the inflation
front, all is well," he said. "Money supply is well under
control. It's an absolutely ideal situation."
    February U.S. industrial production rose 0.5 pct, slightly
less than the 0.7 pct gain the financial markets had expected.
This compared with a slim 0.1 pct rise in January's production
number, previously reported as a 0.4 pct increase.
    The February U.S. producer price index gained only 0.1 pct,
less than a 0.3-0.4 pct expected rise. This followed a 0.6 pct
rise in the PPI in January.
    "The Fed is going to look at this positively," said Allan
Leslie of Discount Corporation. "Certainly inflation is not as
bad as what Volcker (Fed Chairman) has said lately. Industrial
production growth is along the lines of what the Fed wants."
    The energy products component of PPI rose 4.0 pct in
February, after a 9.8 pct increase in January.
    "This shows that the impact of energy prices on inflation
is behind us in terms of the move from 15 dlrs to 18 dlrs per
barrel," said Maria Ramirez of Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. "The
trend is still 3.5 pct in the first half of the year."
    In 1986, declining energy prices contributed to a 2.5 pct
decline in the PPI.
    Economists said that a rise in energy prices was expected,
but a sharp drop in auto prices was not. Passenger car prices
fell 3.4 pct and light truck prices dropped 1.3 pct.
    Yesterday, Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker said that
a possibility of renewed inflation remains a concern in both
the financial markets and the Federal Reserve.
    "The Fed may be lowering its own inflation expectations
today," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International.
    While low inflation permits the Fed to maintain an easier
monetary policy, Brusca said if import prices do not rise this
could necessitate a weaker dollar.
    "The outlook for the dollar is still up in the air," he
said. "We need inflation for U.S. producers to compete with
foreign producers."
    Brusca said prices of electronic equipment dropped 0.8 pct
in February's PPI. With many electronic goods produced
overseas, this may show that foreign producers are not raising
prices which bodes ill for U.S. competitiveness, he said.
    If further dollar declines are needed, this could diminish
overseas investment in U.S. debt, Brusca added, which might
necessitate higher interest rates and lower bond prices.
    By contrast, Slifer said imported goods prices rose 11.8
pct from first quarter 1985 to first quarter 1986 reflecting to
a large degree a 22 pct drop in the trade-weighted real value
of the dollar from February 1985 to February 1987.
    Slifer said import prices may rise further as
manufacturers' contracts put in place before the dollar dropped
to current levels expire, and new contracts are made that
reflect a weaker dollar.
    David Wyss of Data Resources Inc noted that imported
manufactured goods prices rose 8.5 pct at an annual rate in the
second half of 1986, which has contributed to rising U.S.
industrial output.
    "It's the other side of the lower dollar," Wyss said.
"Producers are beginning to find themselves more competitive
and they are increasing output."
    Wyss said that the latest data point to an average
industrial production gain of 0.3-0.4 pct in the first quarter.
"It's an encouraging sign that the manufacturing sector is
beginning to revive."
    But Stephen Roach of Morgan Stanley and Co Inc was not 
convinced that the February reports portend economic gains. He
said much of the strength came from factors that do not point
to a sustained rise in industrial output.
    Roach pointed out that stikers returning to work in farm
equipment industries helped account for a one pct rise in
February business equipment production.
    Utilities output rose 0.7 pct in February after gaining 1.2
pct in January, but Roach said it shows mostly that more energy
was produced, not that manufacturing activity gained.
    Finally, he pointed out that auto production accounted for
half of the industrial production gain as production of auto
assemblies rose to 8.3 million units at an annual rate from 7.5
million units.
    "In the first quarter, it looks like automakers are
producing at an 8.5 mln unit annual rate, but selling at
roughly a seven mln unit rate," Roach said. "The disparity
between output and sales is showing up in inventories."
    Economists pointed to sharp rise in January U.S. business
inventories as a sign that production may be outstripping
demand in the first quarter of 1987.
    January business inventories rose 0.9 pct, the largest gain
since July 1979 when inventories rose 1.7 pct, the Commerce
Department said. Business sales dropped 4.5 pct in January, the
largest monthly sales drop on record.
    Nonetheless, economists do not expect the Fed to react to
month-to-month changes. "The Fed has been standing pat for the
last seven months," Ramirez said. "They will continue to stand
pat for at least the next couple of months."
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4993>
The growth rate of Brazilian
industrial output slowed in January to 6.09 pct above the same
1986 month after rising 6.71 pct in December, Brazilian
Geography and Statistics Institute figures show.
    The result is in line with the declining trend in the
growth rate since October, the Institute said.
    In the 12 months to end-January industrial production was
10.48 pct above the 12 months to end-January last year while in
calendar 1986 output was 10.89 pct above 1985.
    The biggest output rises in the 12 months to end-January
were 23.68 pct in pharmaceuticals and 22.12 pct in machinery.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5052>
Industrial output in January was
6.09 pct above the same 1986 month after rising 6.71 pct in
December, Brazilian Geography and Statistics Institute figures
show.
    The result is in line with the declining trend in the
growth rate since October, the Institute said.
    In the 12 months to end-January industrial production was
10.48 pct above the 12 months to end-January last year, while
in calendar 1986 output was 10.89 pct above 1985.
    The biggest output rises in the 12 months to end-January
were 23.68 pct in pharmaceuticals and 22.12 pct in machinery.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5178>
The Soviet economy recovered slightly
last month after a poor performance in January, but major
industries, including oil and machinery, are still short of
production targets, official figures show.
    Central Statistical Board data published in the weekly
Ekonomicheskaya Gazeta yesterday showed that industrial output
was only up 0.8 pct in the first two months of 1987 over the
same period of last year.
    However, the figure for January alone showed a fall in
output of 0.1 pct from a year earlier. Production is targetted
to increase 4.4 pct for all of 1987.
    The figures showed that only 77 pct of enterprises met
their supply obligations in January and February.
    Production of oil, the country's main export to Western
nations, hit 100 mln tonnes in January and February, up from
97.3 mln a year earlier, and exceeded its target by 0.5 pct.
    Economists said this reflected the huge investments poured
into the oil sector in recent months in an effort to reverse
the stagnation in production which began in November 1983.
    Falling world oil prices last year helped cause a decline
in Soviet trade with the West to 130 billion roubles from 141.6
billion in 1985.
    Ekonomicheskaya Gazeta said labour productivity targets
were also not fulfilled, but did not give figures.
    Economists said the overall data reflected exceptionally
bad weather at the start of the year and stricter quality
controls imposed on enterprises.
    Production in the machine-building sector, a priority in
Moscow's plans for economic renewal, recovered slightly in
February but was still 3.6 pct lower in the first two months of
the year compared with the same period of 1986.
    The figures showed that five republics produced less than
in the first two months of 1986.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5196>
Japan's January seasonally adjusted
industrial production index (base 1980) was revised upwards to
122.3 from a preliminary 122.0, the Ministry of International
Trade and Industry said.
    The revised adjusted January index was down 0.5 pct from
December when it rose 3.6 pct from a month earlier.
    The revised unadjusted January index rose 0.5 pct from a
year earlier, after a one pct year-on-year December rise.
    The adjusted producers' shipment index (base 1980) for
January was revised upward to 117.7 from a preliminary 117.4.
    The index was down 0.7 pct from December when it rose three
pct from a month earlier. The revised unadjusted index was up
1.0 pct from a year earlier after a 1.4 pct year-on-year
December rise.
    The adjusted index of producers' inventories of finished
goods (base 1980) for January was unchanged from a preliminary
105.9. The index was down 0.3 pct from December when it rose
1.1 pct. Unadjusted, the revised index was down 2.3 pct from a
year earlier after a 2.1 pct year-on-year drop in December.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5240>
Sweden's industrial production fell
1.8 pct during January compared with a fall of 0.8 pct the
month before and remains unchanged compared with January 1986,
according to figures from the Central Bureau of Statistics.
    The bureau attributed the fall to a long Christmas break
and particularly cold weather, which lowered production in the
forestry industry.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5848>
U.K. Industrial production rose a
provisional 0.4 pct in January after a 0.6 pct decline in
December 1986, figures from the Central Statistical Office
show.
    The index for industrial production, base 1980, was set at
a seasonally adjusted 109.8 in January after December's 109.4
and compared with 108.2 a year earlier.
    Output of manufacturing industries fell a provisional 2.3
pct in January after a 0.2 pct rise last December.
    The index for manufacturing, base 1980, fell to 103.9 from
106.3, and compared with 102.3 a year earlier.
    The CSO said industrial production in the three months to
January was provisionally estimated to have fallen by 0.7 pct
from the level of the previous three months, while
manufacturing output rose by 0.5 pct in the same period.
    In the three months, industrial production was 1.5 pct
higher than in the same period a year earlier, while
manufacturing output was two pct higher.
    Within manufacturing, output of the metals industry rose by
six pct and that of engineering and allied industries by one
pct between the two latest three month periods. Output of
chemicals and textiles fell by one pct and minerals by two pct.
    The Office said output of the investment goods industries
rose 0.1 pct while consumer goods output increased 0.6 pct.
    Output of intermediate goods fell 1.6 pct between the two
latest three-month periods.
    The figures showed the energy production index, base 1980,
rose 7.2 pct in January to 126.4 from December's 117.9 and from
124.6 in January 1986.
    In the latest three months, the energy index, which
comprises oil, natural gas and coal production, was down 3.5
pct on the previous quarter and 0.5 pct below the same period a
year earlier.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6158>
The Bank of France expects a continued
revival in short-term industrial activity, but the outlook for
any improvement in France's record 10.9 pct unemployment rate
remains bleak, the Bank of France said in its monthly review.
    The upturn in activity in all industrial sectors except the
agro-food sector in February more than compensated for the fall
in January, while construction and civil engineering
experienced a recovery which appears likely to extend over the
next few months.
    Internal demand rose and the export situation improved, in
particular toward the European Community (EC), the Bank said.
    Stocks decreases and order book levels, with the exception
of the agro-food industry, improved substantially.
    In addition, retail prices and salaries stabilised last
months.
    Production rose in all sectors except agricultural
machinery and aeronautics, where it stabilised, and ship
construction, where it declined.
    The car industry was the major beneficiary of the upturn in
activity in February, with both domestic and export orders
rising.
    In the consumer goods sector, actitity rose sharply despite
a fall in the household goods sector and stability in
pharmaceuticals.
    Among semi-finished products, output rose sharply, helped
by a strong growth in construction materials.
    But activity in the retail sector declined slightly over
the past two months.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6375>
A leading Soviet economist said the
practice of padding figures was significantly inflating the
country's industrial production data.
    "According to the information of state monitoring organs,
the padding of figures makes up one-and-a-half to three per
cent of the volume of production," Alexei Sergeyev told the
official newspaper Sovetskaya Rossiya.
    "In my opinion, it is significantly higher," Sergeyev, who
works at the Economics Institute of the Soviet Union's Academy
of Sciences, said.
    Most Western economists have for years allowed for a
certain padding of figures when analysing Soviet statistics for
industrial production.
    Sergeyev said about 600 mln roubles was lost annually in
raw material industries by paying wages and bonuses for work
which was not in fact performed.
    He said the elimination of figure-padding and other
malpractices would save billions of roubles and would pay for
the Soviet Union's social development program up to the year
2000.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7606>
Italian industrial production fell 3.4 pct
in January, compared with the same month last year, the
national statistics institute Istat said.
    The rise follows a year-on-year increase in December 1986
of 4.5 pct.
    Istat's industrial production index, base 1980, not
seasonally adjusted, registered 93.3, compared with 96.6 in
January 1986.
    Istat said there were 20 working days in January, the same
as December, but one fewer than January last year.
    Istat said the year-on-year fall reflected poorer
performances in the footwear, clothing, textiles, chemicals and
metals industries.
    It said office machinery and data sectors, wood and
furniture, precision mechanics, oil and electricity showed
improved activity.
    Calculations based on Istat figures showed industrial
production rose 2.4 pct in January, on a month-on-month basis,
after falling 12.0 pct in December over November.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7623>
Industrial production rose 4.8 pct on
a seasonally-adjusted basis in January compared with December
while rising 2.8 pct from January last year, Central Bureau of
Statistics figures show.
    In December, industrial production fell by 2.8 pct from
November while rising 2.9 pct compared with December 1985.
    The industrial production index, base 1980, stood at 109 in
January compared with a downward revised 104 in December, which
was initially put at 105. In January last year, the index stood
at 106 and in December 1985 at 101.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8063>
Taiwan's industrial production index,
fell, largely as the result of the rising Taiwan dollar, by
8.18 pct to 140.06 (base 1981) in February from a revised
152.53 in January, the Economy Ministry said.
    It was the second consecutive monthly fall, after dropping
nine pct in January, but it was still 26.49 pct up on February
1986 following a very extended rise last year.
    The January figure was revised from a preliminary 154.82.
    A ministry official attributed the decline to falling
production of non-metal products, textiles and transportation
equipment, and less mining and house construction.
    The official said the decline was also caused by falling
exports in February due to the climb of the Taiwan dollar,
which has made Taiwanese products more expensive.
    He expected the decline to continue in the next few months
because of further appreciation of the local dollar against the
U.S. Currency.
    The Taiwan dollar advanced more than 15 pct against the
U.S. Dollar since September 1985. It closed at 34.40 to the
U.S. Dollar today, and is expected to rise to about 32 to the
dollar by the end of this year, foreign bankers and economists
said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8190>
French industrial production fell a
seasonally adjusted 1.98 pct in January after revised unchanged
output in December, the National Statistics Institute (INSEE)
said.
    The figure, which excludes construction and public works,
put the January index, base 1980, at 99 after 101 in December.
January output was 1.98 pct down on January 1986.
    INSEE, which from January changed its base year to 1980
from 1970, originally had December output down 2.2 pct on
November, using the old base year.
    INSEE said production in January was affected by rail
strikes and severely cold weather.
    It said output of gas and electricity was very high but
activity slowed on construction sites, in quarries and in
certain base industries.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8363>
Ireland's industrial production index
stood at 132.8 in December, a year-on-year rise of 6.2 pct, the
Central Statistics Bureau reported.
    In November the index, base 1980, stood at 144.8, showing a
rise of 4.3 pct on a year-on-year basis.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8585>
British manufacturers expect output to
grow rapidly in the four coming months, a Confederation of
British Industry (CBI) survey shows.
    The CBI's monthly trends survey for March shows that 43 pct
of the 1,685 polled U.K. Firms expect to raise output in the
next four months. Only nine pct expect output to fall while 47
pct said production would likely remain unchanged.
    The CBI said the positive balance between firms expecting
production to rise and those forecasting a fall, at 34 pct, was
the highest such figure recorded since 1977.
    In the CBI's February survey, 37 pct of companies expected
a rise in output while 54 pct forecast production would remain
at present levels and eight pct expected production to drop.
    The survey also showed that 23 pct of the polled companies
consider current order books to be above normal while 58 pct
view them as normal and only 19 pct regard them as below
normal.
    This was the highest positive balance since the question
was first asked more than 10 years ago, the CBI said.
    In February, the figures were 24 pct, 22 pct and 54 pct
respectively.
    Companies also rated their export possibilities higher. Of
all polled companies, 23 pct rated their export order books to
be above normal and 53 pct described them as normal while only
23 pct believed export orders were below normal levels.
    In February, 25 pct thought their export books were below
normal and 50 pct believed them to be about normal. At 23 pct,
the proportion of companies rating their export books above
normal was unchanged between February and March.
    On prices, the survey showed that 62 pct of companies
expect average prices at which domestic orders are booked will
remain unchanged in the coming four months, up from 57 pct in
February.
    From 38 pct in February, only 31 pct of firms now expect
prices to rise before July. Six pct forecast prices will fall,
against four pct a month earlier.
    Commenting on the survey, CBI economic situation committee
chairman David Wigglesworth said sterling's more competitive
level against many European currencies had improved exports.
    "But interest rates are still much higher than in our
competitor countries and British manufacturers will still have
to work hard to win new business both in overseas markets and
in the substitution of British-made goods for imports here at
home," he said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8661>
British manufacturers expect output to
grow rapidly in the four coming months, a Confederation of
British Industry (CBI) survey shows.
    The CBI's monthly trends survey for March shows that 43 pct
of the 1,685 polled U.K. Firms expect to raise output in the
next four months. Only nine pct expect output to fall while 47
pct said production would likely remain unchanged.
    The CBI said the positive balance between firms expecting
production to rise and those forecasting a fall, at 34 pct, was
the highest such figure recorded since 1977.
    In the CBI's February survey, 37 pct of companies expected
a rise in output while 54 pct forecast production would remain
at present levels and eight pct expected production to drop.
    The survey also showed that 23 pct of the polled companies
consider current order books to be above normal while 58 pct
view them as normal and only 19 pct regard them as below
normal.
    This was the highest positive balance since the question
was first asked more than 10 years ago, the CBI said.
    In February, the figures were 24 pct, 22 pct and 54 pct
respectively.
    Companies also rated their export possibilities higher. Of
all polled companies, 23 pct rated their export order books to
be above normal and 53 pct described them as normal while only
23 pct believed export orders were below normal levels.
    In February, 25 pct thought their export books were below
normal and 50 pct believed them to be about normal. At 23 pct,
the proportion of companies rating their export books above
normal was unchanged between February and March.
    On prices, the survey showed that 62 pct of companies
expect average prices at which domestic orders are booked will
remain unchanged in the coming four months, up from 57 pct in
February.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8671>
Japan's economy remains sluggish but is
beginning to show signs it may bottom out soon, the Economic
Planning Agency said in a monthly report submitted to Cabinet
ministers.
    But a bottoming out of the economy depends largely on the
yen's exchange rate trend in the immediate future, Agency
officials said.
    The officials told reporters industrial production, down
0.5 pct in January from December, is likely to turn positive in
February and to rise thereafter, raising hopes for a brighter
economic outlook.
    The Agency predicted industrial production will grow 2.5
pct in the current January/March quarter after falling 0.7 pct
in the previous quarter.
    A rise of this size would be the largest since the fourth
quarter of 1984 when industrial output rose 2.7 pct, the
officials said.
    They also said an expected upturn in exports would be a
mixed blessing as it would contribute to economic growth but
would increase the chance of trade friction.
    Japanese exports contracted five pct in February from
January but are likely to grow from March if the yen stabilizes
around current levels, the officials said.
    They predicted exports will increase by 2.3 pct in the
January/March quarter from the October/December quarter.
    "But the problem is imports are not expanding," said one
official. Imports fell by 9.4 pct in February from January.
 REUTER
</BODY>
