<BODY DOCID=525>
European Community steelmakers
presented the Executive Commission with a controversial plan
for the future of the industry which diplomats say it may be
forced reluctantly to accept.
    Under the plan steel output would remain subject to
restrictive quotas and imports would be firmly controlled for
years to come while steel firms undertook a massive
slimming-down operation to adjust capacity to lower demand.
    Industry Commissioner Karl-Heinz Narjes has proposed the
ending of the quota system by December 1988.
    He has proposed a return to the free market, which under EC
law is supposed to exist except in times of "manifest crisis."
    But diplomats said some ministers who meet to discuss this
idea on March 19 will argue that steel firms are in crisis in
their countries, with orders falling as customers switch to
alternative products and accounts firmly in the red.
    Ministers from the EC's major steel producing countries are
likely to shy away from Narjes' proposals and could back the
industry's own plan instead, in the hope of minimising the
political impact of plant closures, they said.
    Industry sources said the plan presented to Narjes by the
EC steelmakers' lobby group Eurofer would retain the quota
production system at least until the end of 1990.
    Eurofer said in a statement consultants working for it
identified scope for closing plants on a "voluntary" basis to
reduce capacity by 15.26 mln tonnes a year.
    Cuts were still insufficient in one production area, that
of hot rolled coils, and further talks were needed.
    Eurofer added the industry would need the support of the
Commission and governments in carrying out a closure program,
particularly with social costs such as redundancy payments.
    The EC steel industry has already shed 240,000 jobs this
decade while reducing annual capacity by 31 mln tonnes.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1156>
Nigeria and Guinea agreed to set up a new
company with Liberia to carry out the 14-year-old
Mifergui-Nimba iron ore project, an official communique said.
    The communique was issued after two days of talks here
between Guinean natural resources minister Ousmane Sylla and
Nigerian minister of mines and power Bunu Sheriff Musa.
    Originally, Guinea held 50 pct in the project and Nigeria
16.2 pct with firms from several other countries also involved,
but the project ran into problems over funding and the slump in
world iron ore markets.
    Musa said Liberia was invited to join and its share will be
decided after a project feasibility study. This would be
completed in May after which finance will be sought. Officials
said the study will be undertaken with the help of the World
Bank, which is also expected to give financial support.
    Production, originally estimated at 15 mln tonnes a year,
will be 12 mln initially and is expected to begin in early
1990.
    On an agreement between the two countries to prospect for
uranium in Guinea, the communique said Musa and Sylla agreed
that because of poor market conditions, it would be extended to
cover exploration for gold, diamonds, cobalt, nickel and
silver.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1934>
The state-owned Minerals and Metals
Trading Corp will send a team to Japan next week to negotiate
an iron ore export contract for 1987/88 beginning April 1,
trade sources said.
    Japan, the biggest buyer of Indian iron ore with imports of
around 23 mln tonnes a year, has asked India to reduce prices
from the current average of 18 dlrs a tonne, the sources said.
    "Japan has said it may be forced to reduce ore imports from
India next year if New Delhi fails to reduce the price," one
source said, but declined to give further details.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10043>
World seaborne iron ore imports will
fall sharply by the year 2000 with declining imports to the EC
and Japan only partially offset by increased demand from South
East Asia, a report by Ocean Shipping Consultants said.
    The report predicts annual world seaborne iron ore imports
of 267.7 mln tonnes by 2000 versus 312.4 mln tonnes in 1985.
    It estimates that total bulk shipping demand from the iron
ore sector will fall by almost 10 pct, or 200 billion tonne
miles, with shipping demand associated with the coking trade
down about 17 pct or 130 billion tonne miles.
    The report sees EC imports falling to 91.7 mln tonnes in
2000 from 123.6 mln in 1985 with Japanese imports falling to 89
mln from 124.6 mln tonnes. Imports to South East Asia are seen
rising to 58.6 mln from 32.6 mln tonnes in 1985.
    It predicts that EC steel production will fall to 109 mln
tonnes in 2000 from 135.7 mln in 1985 with Japanese production
falling to 92 mln from 105.3 mln.
    South Korea and Taiwan are expected to double their output
to 40 mln tonnes with Chinese production increasing by 25 mln
tonnes to 80 mln, it added.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10268>
India is searching for non-communist
countertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit and
conserve foreign exchange.
    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering and
electronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, are
all on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,
chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.
    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in
1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading
Corp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).
    "The two state trading corporations are free to use their
buying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indian
exports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding that
private firms are excluded from countertrading.
    One trade source said India has targetted countries that
depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign
imports.
    However, countertrade deals still make up only a small part
of India's total trading and are likely to account for less
than eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade
during the nine months ended December, the sources said.
    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65
billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,
against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.
    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern
Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.
    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of
agricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crude
oil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87,
against three billion in 1985/86.
    Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to help
narrow the country's large trade deficit, is still
insignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia,
Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.
    The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96
billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billion
in the current fiscal year.
    But the push to include non-communist countries in
countertrade is also due to other factors, including the slow
growth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule,
shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.
    One source said India is showing more dynamism in promoting
countertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were made
discreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannot
officially support bartering.
    The MMTC's recent countertrade deals include iron ore
exports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.
    "MMTC's recent global tenders now include a clause that
preference will be given to parties who accept payment in kind
for goods and services sold to India," a trade official said,
adding that the policy remains flexible.
    "We also take into account other factors such as prices at
which the goods and services are offered to India," the trade
official said.
    Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreign
companies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigs
and railway equipment to India that they stood a better chance
if they bought Indian goods or services in return, the trade
sources said.
    Illustrating the point, the official said a South Korean
firm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mln
dlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.
    In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buy
Indian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pct
sought by New Delhi, the trade official said.
    "We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest,"
he added.
    Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreign
currency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol to
buy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe in
exchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.
    But despite India's new drive, countertrade has some
inherent problems, they added.
    "It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement that
the trade should always be balanced," one trade source said. "The
other problem is it is often difficult to supply or buy
commodities which the other party wants."
    Another added, "Barter is also restrictive. We look upon it
as a temporary measure to get over the current balance of
payments difficulty.
    "This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India.
It does not even figure in the country's foreign trade policy."
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10275>
Four major Japanese steelmakers plan to
form a seamless pipe export cartel for markets other than the
U.S. And the European Community for a year from April to keep
prices above output costs, company officials involved said.
    The companies are Nippon steel Corp &lt;NSTC.T>, Sumitomo
Metal Industries Ltd &lt;SMIT.T>, Nippon Kokan KK &lt;NKKT.T> and
Kawasaki Steel Corp &lt;KAWS.T>, which together account for some
95 pct of Japan's total seamless pipe exports.
    The firms will apply to form the cartel to the Ministry of
International Trade and Industry today and approval is expected
later this month, the officials said.
    Under the plan, the four companies will set floor prices
for exports as prices have fallen sharply due to the yen's
appreciation against the dollar, reduced world demand caused by
lower oil prices and excess domestic capacity which resulted in
price-cutting competition, the officials said.
    In calendar 1986, seamless pipe exports fell to 2.34 mln
tonnes from 2.99 mln in 1985 and 3.12 mln in 1981.
    The officials declined to give any idea of floor prices,
saying it depends partly on volume, but industry sources
estimate average export prices would rise by around 20 pct to
some 800 dlrs a tonne.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10315>
Kawasaki Steel Corp &lt;KAWS.T> said its
parent company's capital spending in the year from April 1 will
fall to 75 billion yen from 110 billion in the current year,
and Sumitomo Metal Industries Ltd &lt;SMIT.T> said its capital
spending will drop to 70 billion yen from 85 billion.
    Both companies said they do not plan to start new large
construction projects linked to production increases in the
coming year, because of the yen's appreciation and slow world
steel demand.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10406>
India is searching for non-communist
countertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit and
conserve foreign exchange.
    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering and
electronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, are
all on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,
chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.
    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in
1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading
Corp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).
    "The two state trading corporations are free to use their
buying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indian
exports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding that
private firms are excluded from countertrading.
    One trade source said India has targetted countries that
depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign
imports. But countertrade deals still make up only a small part
of India's total trading and are likely to account for less
than eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade
during the nine months ended December, the sources said.
    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65
billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,
against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.
    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern
Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.
    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of
agricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crude
oil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11030>
Steel production rose
1.3 pct to 1,696,000 short tons in the
week ended March 28 from 1,675,000 short
tons, the American Iron and Steel Institute
reported
   Production so far this year was 18,810,000 tons adjusted off
14.6 pct from 22,016,000 tons
produced by the nations mills a year ago.
    Utilization for the week of March 28 was   78.7 pct and for
the week of March 21 was      was 77.8 pct.      
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11039>
Copperweld Steel Co &lt;CPSL>, a
subsidiary of CSC Industries Inc., said it will increase from
market price levels its bar, semi-finished and leaded products
effective July One.
    Hot rolled and cold finished bar wil be increase 25 dlrs
per net ton, while semi-finished products will be increased 15
dlrs per net ton, the company said.
    Anticipated higher energy and raw material costs, combined
with current market trends, were cited by the company as
reasons for the increases.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11104>
Steel Technologies Inc said it
agreed to form a 50-50 joint venture with &lt;Mitsui and Co Ltd>
to make steel products.
    The venture, called Mi-Tech Steel Inc, will be set up to
serve Japanese and domestic automobile and appliance parts
makers in the U.S.
    A plant will be located near Murfreesboro, Tenn., and
production is expected to begin in the fall 1987, the company
said.

 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11107>
Steel Technologies Inc said it
signed an agreement with Mitsui and Co Ltd &lt;MITSY> and its
subsidiaries to establish a joint venture corporation to be
called Mi-Tech Steel Inc.
    Mitsui, through its subsidiaries, Mitsui and Co USA Inc and
Mitsui Steel Development Co Inc, and Steel Technologies each
will own 50 pct of the new company, the company said.
    Mi-tech Steel will construct, own and operate steel service
centers. The facilities will be established to serve Japanese
and domestic automobile and appliance parts manufactures in the
U.S., the company said.
    The initial processing center will be located near
Murfreesboro, Tenn., and is expected to begin operations in the
fall of 1987, Steel Technologies said.
    Daryl Elser, president of Steel Technologies, will be
president of the new company, it said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11121>
USX Corp said its USS steelmaking
division increased prices on plate and H-pile products.
    Effective with May three shipments, it said the price base
on carbon and high-strength low-alloy, or HSLA, H-piles will
increase by 1-1/2 cts per pound.
    Effective with shipments beginning June 28, the price on
carbon, HSLA, and alloy plates will increase by 1-1/4 cts per
pound. Strip mill plate prices will rise by 3/4 cts per pound.
    It said the price increases on plate and H-pile products
will apply to all shipments from USS plants.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11124>
The Venezuela Guayana Corporation, CVG,
which oversees the state steel, iron, aluminum and other
industries, will invest 75 billion bolivars in new projects
during 1987-89, CVG president Leopoldo Sucre Figarella
announced.
    The investments will go to plant expansion, infrastructure
and the extension of hydroelectric facilities in the
mineral-rich Guayana region, south of the Orinoco river.
    Sucre Figarella told a news conference the CVG's 12
companies showed an overall increase of 120 pct in profits,
which rose from 1.732 billion bolivars in 1985 to 3.926 billion
bolivars last year.
    Among the best performers was steel company Sidor which
earned 1.019 billion bolivars, the first time since 1978 Sidor
turned a profit.
    The gain was made possible in part by the refinancing of
1.619 mln dollars of foreign debt.
    CVG's three aluminum companies also showed substantial
gains. Interalumina, which makes the intermediate material
alumina, had an increase in profits from 116 to 217 mln
bolivars, Alcasa earned 487 mln bolivars, as compared to 1985's
412 mln and Venalum's profits rose by around half, from 1.042
to 1.504 bln bolivars.
    Meanwhile, the state iron company Ferrominera saw its
profits rise from 156 mln bolivars in 1985 to 204 mln bolivars
last year.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11179>
Japan will pay five pct less for the
Indian iron ore it imports in fiscal 1987/88 starting April 1
than the average 18 dlrs a tonne it paid in 1986/87, a
government trade official told Reuters.
    He said India had agreed to export to Japan about 23 mln
tonnes of iron ore in 1987/88, about the same as in the current
year.
    The official described the agreement as satisfactory
overall. He said it was signed by an official Indian trade
delegation and Japanese businessmen in Tokyo last week.
    The official said it was encouraging that Japan had agreed
not to reduce ore imports from India although Japan's total
iron ore imports would be lower in the coming year because of
the recession in the Japanese steel industry.
    He said Japanese ore imports in calendar 1987 would total
96 mln tonnes, compared with 103.5 mln in 1986.
    Government officials said India's total ore exports are
likely to rise to between 33 and 34 mln tonnes in 1987/88,
against a provisionally estimated 31 mln in 1986/87.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11706>
The U.S. specialty steel industry
and its union said they will seek a three-year extension of
President Reagan's import restraint program to give the
industry more time to restore competitiveness.
    They said they will tell the U.S. International Trade
Commission (ITC) Thursday that "termination will have disastrous
consequences for American companies and workers."
    The current four-year voluntary program reached with
foreign exporters ends this summer and the ITC must advise
President Reagan on the economic effect of its termination.
    The Specialty Steel Industry of the United States and the
United Steelworkers Union said in statement that imported steel
was still flooding the domestic market and continued curbs were
needed to restore the industry's health.
    Reagan is to decide by July 19 whether to renew the
restraint program.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11813>
Taiwan's shipbreaking industry is
expected to decline sharply this year despite the boom in 1986
because of keener competition from South Korea and China, the
rising Taiwan dollar and U.S. Import curbs on steel products,
industry sources said.
    Last year, Taiwanese breakers demolished a record 344
vessels totalling 3.69 million light displacement tons (ldt),
up on 165 of 2.97 million ldt in 1985, Lin Chung-jung, a Taiwan
Shipbreaking Industry Association (TSIA) spokesman, told
Reuters.
    China scrapped vessels of some 1.1 mln ldt last year while
South Korea demolished ships of 910,000 ldt, he said.
    Yao Liu, president of Chi Shun Hwa Steel Co, a leading
shipbreaker and steel producer in Kaohsiung, told Reuters, "We
expect to scrap fewer ships this year because of an expected
decline in our steel product exports."
    Lin said many breakers predicted a 20 pct decline in
scrapping operations this year due to falling demand from the
U.S., Japan and Southeast Asia for Taiwanese steel.
    Taiwan agreed last year to voluntarily limit its steel
product exports to the U.S. To 120,000 tonnes in the first half
of 1987 from about 260,000 tonnes in the first half of 1986, a
Taiwan Steel and Iron Association official said.
    Yao said the rising Taiwan dollar means Taiwan's steel
exports are more expensive than South Korea's and China's.
    The Taiwan dollar has strengthened by some 16 pct against
the U.S. Unit since September 1985 and some bankers and
economists said it could appreciate to 32 to the U.S. Dollar by
the end of the year from 34.23 today, Yao said.
    In comparison, the won rose by about five pct and yuan
remained stable during the same period, he added.
    "We have lost some orders to South Korea and mainland China
because foreign importers have switched their purchases," he
said.
    Taiwan's steel exports to the U.S., Japan and Southeast
Asia slipped to 148,000 tonnes in the first two months of 1987
from about 220,000 tonnes a year earlier, the Taiwan Steel and
Iron Association official said.
    He said he expected further declines in later months but
did not give figures.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11918>
Thyssen AG &lt;THYH.F> expects a fall of
between 15 and 20 pct in consolidated turnover in 1986/87,
chief executive Dieter Spethmann said.
    He told journalists the exact decline would depend on
dollar developments. The Thyssen group did over 50 pct of its
business outside West Germany.
    Spethmann made no comment on 1986/87 group earnings. World
group net profit fell to 370.1 mln marks in the year ended
September 1986 from 472.4 mln a year earlier on group sales
which fell to 40.00 billion marks from a previous 44.32
billion.
    Last week Spethmann told the annual meeting Thyssen
expected to post a good profit in 1986/87 despite expected
losses in the mass steel-making operations this year.
    Spethmann said engineering turnover would not be lower this
year, but lower steel prices would result in a drop in steel
turnover and sales volume. This would also affect Thyssen's
trading operations, he said.
    Spethmann also categorically denied a magazine article
published this week which spoke of a dispute between him and
Heinz Kriwet, management board chairman of Thyssen Stahl AG,
over planned job cuts in steel plants in the Ruhr area.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12046>
Bethlehem Steel Corp said its
base price for carbon plates and high-strength and low-alloy
plates will be increased by 25 dlrs to 405 dlrs a short ton,
effective July one.
    The company said its composite prices for alloy plates will
also be increased 25 dlrs per ton on the same date, adding it
does not publish its prices for this product.
    Bethlehem Steel said its composite prices for strip mill
plates will be increased 15 dlrs a ton.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12533>
An estimated 1.2 mln metro users in
Madrid were stranded today as striking railway workers halted
the underground transport system, industry sources said. The
strikers joined coal miners, steel and oil refinery workers in
Spain's latest wave of stoppages over wage demands.
    Some 10,000 pitmen in the northern province of Leon entered
the second day of an indefinite stoppage to demand wage rises
and a five-day working week, the sources said.
    Oil refinery workers picketed the state-owned Empresa
Nacional de Petroleo SA (EMP) to prevent fuel lorries leaving
the company's largest plant in Puertollano, central Spain.
    Paramilitary police were guarding steel mills at Reinosa,
in northern Spain, from the daily protests against planned job
cuts. A local government official said the police force would
remain in place until tempers had cooled down.
    More than 60 people were injured in pitched battles between
police and steel foundry workers in Reinosa last month.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2982>
The Soviet Union has agreed to cut its
coking coal export prices to Japanese steel mills by about five
dlrs a tonne in 1987/88 starting April 1 in exchange for an
increase in export volume, industry sources said.
    The prices were set at 44 dlrs a tonne for Neryungrinsky
coal and at 43.80 dlrs for Kuznetsky coal, fob.
    Japan will import a total of 4.9 mln tonnes from both
areas, up from 4.2 mln a year earlier, they said.
    The steelmakers had asked Moscow to agree to a cutback to
3.7 mln tonnes in 1987/88, but the Soviet Union urged Japan to
increase the amount to 6.5 mln, they said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3469>
Nippon Steel Corp &lt;NSTC.T> and &lt;Inland
Steel Co> of the U.S. Are negotiating to set up a joint steel
venture in Indiana, a Nippon Steel spokesman said, declining to
give more details.
    Several local newspapers reported the joint venture would
be capitalised at 150 mln dlrs, owned 60 pct by Inland and 40
pct by Nippon Steel, and have annual production capacity of one
mln tonnes of steel to supply car makers.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4016>
USX Corp said proved reserves of oil
and natural gas liquids fell 28 pct to 802.8 mln barrels at the
end of 1986 from 1.12 billion barrels at year-end 1985.
    The figures, in USX's just-released 1986 annual report,
indicate much of the drop resulted from the exclusion of 293.7
mln barrels of Libyan reserves, after the U.S. government last
June directed U.S. oil companies to end Libyan operations.
    USX, which owns Marathon Oil Co and Texas Oil and Gas Corp,
had 60 pct of its 1986 sales of 14.94 billion dlrs from its oil
and gas operations.
    About 24 pct of total sales came from USX's USS steel unit
and 16 pct from diversified businesses, which include oilfield
services, raw materials, minerals, chemicals and real estate.
    According to the report, domestic liquids reserves fell
slightly to 628.5 mln barrels from 628.9 mln and foreign
reserves fell to 174.3 mln from 486.4 mln barrels. The large
drop in foreign reserves was in the Middle East and Africa,
where they fell to about 9.3 mln barrels from 316.7 mln,
reflecting the exclusion of Libya.
    Total natural gas reserves fell to 4.82 trillion cubic feet
at year-end 1986 from 5.18 trillion at the end of 1985.
    Again, most of the drop came from the Middle East and
Africa, where reserves fell to zero from 71.9 billion cubic
feet, excluding Libyan reserves.
    U.S. natural gas reserves fell to 3.44 trillion cubic feet
from 3.65 trillion and foreign reserves fell to 1.38 trillion
from 1.53 trillion.
    In other areas, USX said total capital spending fell to 962
mln dlrs in 1986 from 1.78 billion dlrs in 1985. The 1986
audited figure is eight mln dlrs higher than the unaudited
figure the company reported on Jan 27.
    USX also said it expects to record a gain of 150 mln dlrs
in 1988, representing 50 pct of previously existing investment
tax credits allowable under the new tax law. The loss of the
other half of the credits was reflected in the fourth quarter.
    In a discussion of steel results, USX said plants that were
shut down last month and some previously idled plants may be
permanently closed. USX took a fourth quarter charge of 1.03
billion dlrs to restructure its steel operations. The charge
included the "indefinite idling" last month of four plants in
Utah, Pennsylvania and Texas.
    Other plants or parts of plants in Pennsylvania, Indiana,
Alabama, Ohio and Chicago had been previously idled.
    "These operations are not permanently shut down. Improved
market conditions for the products from these plants may make
it feasible to reopen some of them," USX said in the report.
    "On the other hand, a lack of any future market improvement
may necessitate their permanent closing," it added.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4049>
International efforts to redirect Japan's
export-driven economy toward domestic consumption face heavy
going if the country's largest defence contractor and world's
biggest shipbuilder is anything to go by.
    Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd &lt;MITH.T> (MHI), which began
making ships and iron goods for Japan's military rulers 130
years ago, is responding to the strong yen by redoubling its
efforts to maintain its share of export markets.
    "If we sell the best quality and the cheapest products,
everyone will buy them," MHI president Yotaro Iida said.
    Although two of MHI's main businesses, shipbuilding and
power plant construction, have been hit hard by the yen's 40
pct rise against the dollar, the company has no plans to
abandon them, Iida told Reuters in an interview.
    Its other big activity, aircraft component manufacture, has
performed so well that MHI now accounts for half of the money
Tokyo spends on defence procurement each year.
    "We have made the utmost efforts among the world's
manufacturers to improve productivity," he said. "You may be
surprised if you come to see our plants. The outside is old but
the inside is ultra-modern, with robots and computers."
    Securities analysts at major securities houses agreed that
MHI has pared costs more quickly than its competitors. The
company has slashed its workforce to 47,000 from 86,000 in
1976.
    Despite its cost-cutting, MHI expects profits to drop 40
pct to 30 billion yen in the current fiscal year ending March
31, from 1985/86's record 50.14 billion.
    And that includes gains from the sale of MHI's stake in
Mitsubishi Motors Corp &lt;MIMT.T> for 49 billion yen.
    Iida is optimistic about the future, however. He said a
resurgence of demand from the Middle East following the recent
recovery in oil prices coupled with persistent demand for power
plants in developing countries will help MHI restore its
exports-to-sales ratio to the past decade's average of 30 pct.
    MHI's exports-to-sales ratio fell to 25.9 pct in the
half-year ended last September, from 35 to 36 pct five years
ago.
    China is the most promising market, although MHI also
considers other non-oil-producing developing countries as major
customers.
    "Our customers are all seen as being in trouble due to a
lack of foreign currency," Iida said. But he added that he felt
MHI could sell to those markets with Japanese government
financial support.
    It can also finance the plants itself and recover its
investment through product sales, a strategy Iida said could
prove popular in the future.
    In shipping, MHI is fighting back against low-priced South
Korean competition by building more technologically advanced
carriers to carry liquefied natural gas and other products
difficult to transport.
    Shipbuilders Association officials told Reuters MHI is the
world's largest shipbuilder in terms of orders and capacity.
    Domestically, MHI is involved in 12 national projects,
including development of nuclear fusion reactors and launch
vehicles for man-made satellites.
    It has been the biggest contractor for the Japan Defence
Agency's F-15 and F-14 jet fighters and missiles, although all
of these have been built under licence from U.S. Firms.
    MHI is now heading up five Japanese companies seeking to
develop the country's own fighter plane to replace the
currently used F-1 support fighters in the late 1990s.
    Military experts said Washington is putting strong pressure
on Tokyo to buy a U.S. Plane, either the McDonnell Douglas Corp
F-18 or General Dynamics Corp F-16, to reduce Japan's huge
trade surplus with the U.S.
    "It might be a good idea to jointly produce planes with U.S.
Makers as Japan is supported by the U.S. Defence umbrella," Iida
said.
    MHI also plans to cooperate with the U.S. In its Strategic
Defence Initiative space defence program by participating in
the project when it moves from the research stage, he said.
    The U.S. Has been seeking Japan's technological support.
    In fiscal 1985/86, aircraft accounted for 17.1 pct of MHI's
sales, shipbuilding 17 pct and power plants 27.9 pct. Iida said
the ideal ratio is power plants 30 pct, aircraft and special
vehicles 25 pct and shipbuilding 15 pct.
    As for the remaining 30 pct, Iida said he wanted to shift
the domestic focus away from heavy machinery sold to
manufacturers and towards household goods, but he declined to
specify which products.
    "By the end of this year, you may find our brand name on
your daily products, although this does not mean we will run
away from our mainstream business," he said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4215>
The EC Commission said it was
adopting an "open attitude" about whether a system of production
quotas should remain for the indefinite future on heavy steel
products which account for about 45 pct of all EC steel goods.
    In a statement, the Commission reiterated its view that the
industry needs to lose between 25 and 30 mln tonnes of capacity
by 1990. It had previously said the quota system, started in
1980, should be wound up completely by the end of next year.
    The industry has argued for the maintenance of existing
quotas, which cover almost 70 pct of all output, saying almost
all steelmakers are losing money due to the depressed market.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5148>
Yugoslavian steel output will rise by
one mln tonnes to 6.3 mln tonnes a year between 1986 and 1990
under a development program adopted by the Yugoslav Iron and
Steel Metallurgy Association, the official Tanjug news agency
said.
    The association groups together the main Yugoslav iron and
steel enterprises.
    Extraction of iron ore should show an annual growth rate of
nine pct and reach seven mln tonnes by 1990 under the program.
Iron output is planned to grow at eight pct a year, reaching
4.5 mln tonnes at the end of the decade.
    Tanjug said the programme would create conditions for
raising exports of finished steel products.
    The main Yugoslav steel producers plan to market 5.35 mln
tonnes of steel goods this year, or 150,000 tonnes more than
last year, with 1.5 mln tonnes going to export.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5153>
India will get 104.65 mln stg as
grants from Britain to develop its coal, zinc and lead
industries, the British Information Services said in a
statement.
    It said a 31 mln stg grant would be disbursed over three to
four years under an agreement signed here yesterday between the
Indian Finance Ministry and the British Overseas Development
Administration.
    The British grants for developing the Indian coal industry
using British mechanised longwall technology totalled 52 mln
stg in the past 10 years, it said.
    Under a separate agreement, the British government agreed
to provide 73.65 mln stg as a grant to develop a zinc and lead
mine at Rampura-Agucha and an associated smelting complex at
Chaneriya, both in India's northern state of Rajasthan, the
statement said.
    The grant will finance the basic engineering for the
smelter complex to be undertaken by Britain's &lt;Davy McKee> of
Stockton. It will also help develop the mine complex, it added.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6535>
Pakistan and Sweden have signed a
commodity exchange agreement for 88 mln dlrs each way, the
Pakistan government announced.
    Pakistan's exports under the agreement will include raw
cotton, cotton products, cotton textiles, steel products,
molasses, naphtha and fresh and dried fruits.
    Swedish exports to Pakistan will include medical and
laboratory equipment, electrical telecommunication equipment,
diesel engine spares, mining and security equipment,
road-building and construction machinery, fertilisers and palm
oil.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6968>
State-owned &lt;China Steel Corp> said its
steel exports will drop to some 600,000 tonnes in the year
ending June 30, 1987 from more than 810,000 in 1985/86.
    Production by the company, Taiwan's largest steel maker, is
expected to rise to 3.33 mln tonnes from 3.27 mln, a spokesman
told Reuters.
    He attributed the export decline to the rise in the Taiwan
dollar, which has eroded the competitiveness of the company's
products against those from South Korea.
    The spokesman said the company is undergoing an expansion
project which calls for a boost in production to 5.65 mln
tonnes a year from the current level. The project, costing 52.3
billion Taiwan dlrs, will be completed by April 1988, two
months ahead of the targetted date, he said.
    The spokesman said the company exports its products to
Japan, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong, the U.S., The Middle East and
Africa.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7161>
European Community (EC) industry
ministers today declared there is a need for a massive round of
closures of steel plants to bring capacity in the 12-country
bloc into reasonable balance with demand.
    The ministers were meeting to discuss a plan for voluntary
plant closures drawn up by the industry lobby group Eurofer
which it calculates would cost around 22,000 jobs.
    Diplomats said that in their initial reactions to the
scheme, most ministers declared it was a useful basis for
discussion, but did not go nearly far enough.
    Eurofer says it has identified scope for the closure of
plants which have an annual capacity of 15.26 mln tonnes,
provided the companies concerned can be fully repaid by the EC
or national governments for redundancy and other social costs.
    But EC Executive Commission sources said Industry
Commissioner Karl-Heinz Narjes told ministers today that 30 mln
tonnes of annual capacity was excess to requirements and should
be closed by the end of 1990.
    He said the Eurofer plan in particular fails to pinpoint
the scope for closure in heavy hot-rolled wide-strip products,
typically produced in plants employing thousands of people.
    The sources said no minister challenged Narjes' analysis
that four or five hot-rolled wide-strip lines would have to
close.
    They said ministers agreed that the Eurofer plan should be
expanded and developed through meetings among the industry
body, the Commission and representatives of member states.
    However, diplomats said it was clear from today's
discussions that such meetings will be difficult.
    They said member states are split on whether to reduce the
scope of a quota production system, which at present protects
EC steelmakers from the full force of competition for 65 pct of
their products, while talks on the closure plan proceed.
    It was also clear that there will be tough talks on which
EC member states should bear the brunt of the closures and on
how much funding for help to those thrown out of work should
come from Community coffers.
    German minister Martin Bangemann said his country's steel
industry, the largest in the EC, should not suffer
proportionately more than others, German sources said.
    But British diplomats said their minister, Giles Shaw,
insists that the profitability of companies should be taken
into account.
    The state owned British Steel Corporation, benefitting from
massive recent write-offs of its accumulated debts, is
currently one of the few EC steel companies in the black.
    Ministers were this afternoon trying to agree a joint
statement on the Eurofer plan and the situation in the
industry.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7323>
European Community (EC) industry
ministers agreed on a plan for voluntary steel plant closures,
drawn up by industry lobby group Eurofer, and calculated to
lead to the loss of about 22,000 jobs.
    The ministers resolved that the proposed closures, which
should bring production capacity more in line with weak demand,
"remain considerably below the surplus in capacity."
    They asked the EC Executive Commission to consult with
Eurofer, major steel companies and with governments, to
pinpoint scope for further capacity reductions beyond the
annual 15.26 mln tonnes identified by Eurofer.
    The Commission will draw up a new system  of steel
production quotas to protect vulnerable EC firms from the full
rigors of open competition.
    Commission sources said any new system would cover only
heavy products representing about 45 pct of the market, instead
of 65 pct under the present system.
    Ministers hope to approve a closure program when they meet
again in Brussels on June 1, the sources said.
    Industry Commissioner Karl-Heinz Narjes told ministers
capacity was 30 mln tonnes in excess of requirements and that
this excess ought to be eliminated by the end of 1990.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7557>
Steel output in the major
non-Communist producing countries fell sharply in February,
continuing a long-running trend, International Iron and Steel
Institute figures showed.
    Production in the 30 countries which report their figures
to it was 6.9 pct below the February 1986 level at 32.03 mln
tonnes.
    Output in the United States fell 18.5 pct to 5.30 mln
tonnes, that in Japan 7.8 pct to 7.27 mln and that in the
European Community 6.5 pct to 9.91 mln.
    The figures continue to indicate a switch away from these
traditional major producing countries to the more advanced
developing countries.
    Brazilian February output rose 9.2 pct from year-earlier
levels to 1.73 mln tonnes and that in South Korea was up 7.5
pct at 1.17 mln tonnes.
    The 30 countries covered by the figures account for about
97 pct of world non-Communist steel production, the Institute
said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7640>
Indian and Australian businessmen
signed a memorandum of understanding to boost two-way trade and
joint industrial ventures in both countries, spokesmen of the
Indo-Australia Business Council told reporters.
    The Indian Council said it hoped India's exports to
Australia would improve in the next few months and reduce the
trade balance which is heavily in Australia's favour.
    In 1986 Australia sold 428 mln Australian dlrs' worth of
goods, including steel and coking coal, to India and bought
170.5 mln worth of items, including cotton textiles, from India.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8113>
Economics Minister Martin Bangemann said
the state could not continue to pour money into West Germany's
ailing steel and coal industries because the subsidies
endangered other parts of the economy.
    "The situation is completely absurd from an economic point
of view," Bangemann told the newspaper Die Welt in an interview
released ahead of publication tomorrow.
    "We are subsidising the production of mineral coal and steel
to an enormous extent and at the same time putting a huge
burden on all other branches of industry and making them
uncompetitive," he said.
    Bangemann said the steel and coal industries were no longer
capable of being competitive. Continued state subsidies would
not save them but would only prolong their lives artifically
for a few years, he said.
    "That is why I have refused to continue subsidising them in
the way that we have done in the past," he said.
    Several steel firms have announced plans to reduce their
workforces, citing weak prices and lower exports due to the
strength of the mark and tough foreign competition.
    Bangemann said everything possible would be done to find
new jobs for the workers affected by the cuts.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8342>
The West German Economics Minister today
denied giving a newspaper interview which quoted him as saying
the state could not continue to pour money into the country's
ailing steel and coal industries.
    Economics Ministry spokesman Dieter Vogel said in a
statement Bangemann had contacted him from New Zealand, where
he is attending a General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs (GATT)
ministerial meeting, to deny giving the interview to the
conservative daily Die Welt. The paper quoted Bangemann as
saying that continued subsidies would endanger other parts of
the German economy by making them uncompetitive.
    Vogel said Bangemann had pledged that everything possible
would be done to minimize the effects of reduced coal and steel
production on the workforces and regions concerned.
    Die Welt said the interview with Bangemann had taken place
at a meeting of his Free Democratic Party (FDP) in Darmstadt
last Friday, adding that it had a tape recording of his
comments which it would publish tomorrow.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9014>
USX Corp's USS subsidiary said
that effective with shipments beginning July 1 prices for all
leaded grades and 1200-series grades of hot rolled bar and
semi-finished products from its Lorain, Ohio, facility will be
increased by 15 dlrs a ton over the prices in effect June 1.
    It said the increase is being made to reflect current
market conditions.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9146>
Nippon Steel Corp &lt;NSTC.TOK> said it will
cut its capital spending by 36.4 pct to 105 billion yen in the
year starting April 1 from a year earlier due to the
postponement of furnace improvements.
    &lt;Nisshin Steel Co Ltd> said it will spend 10.7 billion yen
in 1987/88 for rationalisation and facility improvements, down
from 32.1 billion a year earlier, after completion of large
construction projects in 1986/87.
    But capital spending by Nippon Kokan K.K. &lt;NKKT.TOK> to
improve and increase its production facilities will rise to
94.90 billion yen from 64 billion, the company said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9205>
Fried. Krupp GmbH said its
Krupp Industrietechnik GmbH subsidiary has won a 130 mln marks
joint order with Samsung Shipbuilding and Heavy Industries Co.
Ltd of Seoul for a steel works in Pohang, South Korea.
    It said the order, awarded by the Pohang Iron and Steel Co.
Ltd, involves a works due to go on stream in 1989 producing
250,000 tonnes of non-corrosive quality steels annually.
    The consortium partners will supply the plant, supervise
its construction and advise on product processing, with Krupp
providing a 100-tonne capacity arc furnace and a converter for
steel refining.
    The West German company will supply ladles, vehicles,
electrical and exhaust cooling apparatus and dust filters. It
will also fit out the plant's laboratory.
    Among other things Krupp said it will provide know-how for
all production phases and train the Korean workforce.
    It said Samsung will take care of the Korean part of the
engineering and electrical work, the water treatment and other
mechanical equipment, according to Krupp basic engineering.
    Extruded ingots from the plant will be converted to sheet
in an existing hot rolling mill. The sheet will be processed in
facilities which are to be erected, Krupp said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9554>
Canada may begin monitoring steel
flowing in and out of the country to determine if any steel is
being illegally "trans-shipped" to the U.S., senior government
trade officials said.
    The officials, asking not to be identified, said the
government will investigate an industry contention that steel 
imported from countries such as South Korea and Taiwan is being
diverted to the U.S. and ultimately exasperating concerns about
the level of Canadian exports south of the border.
    But the senior officials, asking not to be indentified,
said that despite intense pressure from the Reagan
Administration, Ottawa was not considering any kind of formal
limits on Canadian shipments to the U.S.
    "In a sense what I hope we are doing is buying some time,"
said one official who claimed Canadian companies were "fair
traders" in the big American market.
    If approved by the Canadian cabinet, the officials said a 
monitoring system will be established in the next three or four
months.
    "I guess if we find trans-shipment is a problem, we would
have to do something about it," said a trade official.
    Canadian steel shipments to the U.S. have risen to 5.7 pct
of the U.S. market in recent months, almost double the level
just two years ago.
    The increase in Canadian shipments comes at a time of
growing anger in the U.S. over rising steel imports from
several countries in the face of a decline among domestic steel
producers.
    Some U.S. lawmakers have proposed Canada's share of the
American market be limited to 2.4 per cent.
    The Ontario Government has urged Ottawa to require foreign
companies to obtain permits to import steel into the country.
Currently, import licences are required only for carbon or raw
steel, which makes up less than half the steel market.
    Canada exported two billion Canadian dlrs worth of steel in
1986, while importing 944-mln dlrs worth of the product in the
same year.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9592>
Brazil wants to increase its
steel exports to the United States, now limited because of
tough import restraints set in 1984 by the Reagan
administration, a spokeswoman for the Brazilian Steel Institute
(IBS) said.
    Brazilian and U.S. Trade officials held the first of a
three-day meeting today in Brasilia to discuss the issue.
    In 1984, after three months of painstaking negotiations,
the U.S. Government reached accords with seven steel-exporting
nations - Australia, Brazil, Japan, Mexico, Spain, South Africa
and South Korea - to reduce their shipments to the United
States by about 30 pct in 1985.
    The 1984 restraints established that for 1987 Brazil's
steel exports to the U.S. Could not exceed 632,000 tonnes,
increasing to 640,000 tonnes in 1988 and 670,000 tonnes in
1989, the last of the five-year deadline set by the agreements.
    Brazilian officials are trying to increase Brazil's export
share of non-flat products to the U.S. Market.
    The spokeswoman said there were reports of domestic supply
problems in the United States.
 Reuter
</BODY>
