<BODY DOCID=870>
South Korea's index of leading indicators
fell 0.1 pct to 164.1 (base 1980) in December after a 0.1 pct
rise in November, representing a 16.1 pct year-on-year gain
from December 1985, Economic Planning Board provisional figures
show.
    The index is based on 10 indicators which include export
values, letters of credit received, warehouse stocks, M-1 and
M-3 money supply figures and the composite stock exchange
index.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=974>
The U.S. index of leading indicators
fell a seasonally adjusted 1.0 pct in January after a revised
2.3 pct December gain, the Commerce Department said.
    The department previously said the index rose 2.1 pct in
December.
    The decline in January was the biggest for any month since
July, 1984, when the index fell 1.7 pct.
    The January decrease left the index at 183.8 over its 1967
base of 100, and was led by a fall in contracts and orders for
plant and equipment.
    A total of six of 10 indicators available for January
contributed to the decline.
    Besides contracts and orders for plant and equipment, they
were building permits, manufacturers' new orders for consumer
goods, a change in sensitive materials prices, slower
deliveries from vendors and higher average weekly claims for
state unemployment insurance.
    Four of 10 indicators were positive, including stock
prices, new business formation, average work week and money
supply.
    The main factor for the December upward revision was new
business formation.
    There was no revision in the 0.9 pct increase in the
leading indicators index for November.
    The index of coincident indicators, which measures the
current economy, fell 0.1 pct in January after increases of 0.7
pct in December and 0.2 pct in November.
    The index of lagging indicators, which measures past
economic activity, rose 0.5 pct in January after a decrease of
0.5 pct in December and an increase of 0.2 pct in November.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1023>
Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige
said after the release of a sharply lower January leading
indicator index that a pickup in exports is needed.
    "The best tonic for the economy now would be a pickup in net
exports," he said in a statement after the department reported
the index fell 1.0 pct in January from December, the sharpest
drop since a 1.7 pct fall in July, 1984.
    The main reasons for the January decline after a 2.3 pct
December rise were declines in building permits, new orders for
plant and equipment and for consumer and industrial goods.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11261>
The U.S. index of leading indicators
rose a seasonally adjusted 0.7 pct in February after a revised
0.5 pct January fall, the Commerce Department said.
    The department previously said the index fell 1.0 pct in
January.
    The February increase left the index at 187.1 over its 1967
base of 100, and was led by a rise in stock prices.
    A total of four of nine indicators available for February
contributed to the increase in the index.
    Besides stock prices, they were manufacturers' new orders
for consumer goods and materials, average work week and
building permits.
    Five of nine indicators were negative. They were change in
sensitive materials prices, money supply, vendor performance,
average weekly initial claims for state unemployment insurance,
and contracts and orders for plant and equipment.
    The main factor in the January revision was contracts and
orders for plant and equipment, the department said.
    December also was revised to a 2.4 pct rise from an earlier
2.3 pct rise due to a change in outstanding credit.
    The index of coincident indicators, which measures the
current economy, rose 0.9 pct in February after a decline of
1.3 pct in January and a rise of 0.9 pct in December.
    The index of lagging indicators, which measures past
economic activity, decreased 0.3 pct in February after
increasing 1.7 pct in January and falling by 0.5 pct in
December.
    The department said it has suspended net business formation
from the leading indicators index because it has deteriorated
as a measure of change in the business population.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11356>
Commerce Secretary Malcolm Baldrige
said a 0.7 pct rise in February's index of leading indicators
pointed to stronger economic growth in the first half of 1987.
    In a statement commenting on the rise last month after a
0.5 pct January decline, Baldrige noted the leading index was
rising at an 8.0 pct annual rate in the six months to the end
of February.
    "Based on past relationships, that gain is consistent with
stepped up growth in real GNP during the first half of 1987,"
Baldrige said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11546>
The White House welcomed last
month's 0.7 pct increase in the Index of Leading Economic
Indicators, the government's key barometer of future economic
growth.
    The increase reversed a decline in January of 0.5 pct.
    Presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said the new
figures signalling more economic growth in coming months showed
that the index was "back on track" after its downturn at the
first of the year.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3531>
Westpac Banking Corp and the
Melbourne University Institute of Applied Economic and Social
Research said their leading index of Australian economic
activity rose for the ninth successive month in December.
    The index rose to 134.1 (base 1980) from 129.8 in November
and 122.8 a year earlier, the Westpac-Institute report said.
    Annualised, it rose 13 pct in December against seven pct in
November and one pct a year earlier, based on the ratio of the
latest index to the average over the previous 12 months.
    The report said the index is now 12 points or 9.8 pct above
its trough in March 1986.
    Westpac's chief economist Bob Graham said the consistent
upward trend in the leading index emphasised the need for a
tough mini-budget in May. "An untoward increase in consumption
spending before the balance of payments improves would have
disastrous consequences," he said.
    The coincident index also rose an annualised three pct in
December against zero movement in November and a seven pct rise
a year earlier, Westpac and the Institute said.
    They said this index continued to show the current
recession is shallow and is more likely to involve a slowing in
real growth than an absolute fall in economic activity.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3640>
Canada's leading composite indicator
advanced 0.4 pct in December after gaining 0.4 pct in the two
previous months, Statistics Canada said.
    The unfiltered index rose 0.8 pct in the month, a
turnaround from the 0.3 pct decline in November, the federal
agency said.
    The manufacturing groups continued to post advances while
goods production rose 1.6 pct, the third increase in the last
four months. The advances, however, were offset by a
deceleration in household demand.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8178>
The U.K. Longer leading cyclical
indicator rose in February by 5.8 pct after January's 1.9 pct
rise, figures from the Central Statistical Office show.
    The indicator, base 1980, which shows trends in the economy
12 months ahead, was put at 108.7 in February compared with
102.7 in January and 99.5 in February 1986.
    The shorter leading indicator, signalling trends six months
ahead, was put at 97.1 for January, the latest month for which
data were available, after December's 96.5. This compared with
98.4 in January 1986.
    The coincident indicator, designed to signal current
turning points in the economy, was put at 91.2 in January, down
from 91.9 in December and 91.6 in january 1986.
    The lagging index, which the CSO says shows a turning point
in the economy about a year after it happens, was at 92.4 in
January, down from 92.5 in December and 93.0 a year earlier.
    The Office said leading indicators still do not show a
consistent picture of the likely future developments of the
business cycle in Britain.
    It said the strong rise in the longer leading index between
December and February was due mainly to rises in share prices.
 REUTER
</BODY>
