<BODY DOCID=121>
High feed prices will cause the
Chinese to reduce hog herd growth and pork production this
year, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.
    In its World Production and Trade Report, the department
said hog numbers at the start of 1987 were estimated at 331.6
mln head, up slightly from 1986, and 10 mln head above earlier
projections for 1987.
    Pork production in 1986 was up 4.2 pct to 17.25 mln tonnes,
slightly below earlier estimates, it said.
    For 1987, production is projected to fall to 17.05 mln
tonnes.
    Feed prices at the end of January were reported 35 to 40
pct above year-ago levels, the department said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=443>
World animal health experts called for a
campaign to eradicate the lethal cattle disease Rinderpest in
Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Nepal and Pakistan, a statement from
a Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) meeting here said.
    Some 230 mln dlrs is needed over two years to vaccinate the
entire susceptible cattle population in Bangladesh and Pakistan
and high-risk areas of the other three countries. In India some
240 mln cattle are estimated to be at risk from the disease.
    The experts recommended the campaign be funded mostly by
the governments of the five nations, with help from the FAO.
Similar campaigns are needed in Egypt, Yemen, Iraq and Iran.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=798>
The American Pork Congress kicks off
tomorrow, March 3, in Indianapolis with 160 of the nations pork
producers from 44 member states determining industry positions
on a number of issues, according to the National Pork Producers
Council, NPPC.
    Delegates to the three day Congress will be considering 26
resolutions concerning various issues, including the future
direction of farm policy and the tax law as it applies to the
agriculture sector. The delegates will also debate whether to
endorse concepts of a national PRV (pseudorabies virus) control
and eradication program, the NPPC said.
    A large trade show, in conjunction with the congress, will
feature the latest in technology in all areas of the industry,
the NPPC added.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1110>
Belgian Foreign Trade Minister Herman
De Croo said he believed there would be a compromise within the
European Community, EC, on its proposed tax on vegetable fats
and oil, averting a pledged tough trade response by the United
States.
    De Croo, in Washington for talks with Administration
officials and Congressional leaders, said at a news conference
there is a battle within the community on the tax on fats and
oils used in the 12 EC countries.
    But he added, "I do not think it will be a big issue because
there will be a big debate inside Europe," adding "so there will
be a compromise."
    U.S. Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter said yesterday
that if the community went ahead with the tax, the United
States would respond "vigorously" to protect its trade rights and
access to community markets.
    De Croo also said he thought the community would postpone
its April 28 deadline for imposing new slaughterhouse rules to
cover all meats brought into EC nations if some progress was
made toward resolving differences with the United States.
    U.S. officials say its rules now meet health standards and
the EC should require equivalent but not identical standards.
    He also told reporters he hoped the community could deal
with another controversial health proposal that would forbid
the feeding of hormones to cattle, which is also opposed by the
United States.
    De Croo gave no deals on how he though the issue might be
resolved. That rule is go into effect on January 1, 1988.
    He said U.S. cattlemen say there is no reason to change
slaughterhouse practices in April if the meat is to be banned a
few months later by the hormone rule.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1372>
The U.S. Agriculture Department
proposes to rename the "USDA Good" grade of beef to "USDA Select."
    The department said the proposed change is in response to a
petition from Public Voice for Food and Health Policy and would
present a more positive image of this grade of beef and help
calorie-conscious consumers select leaner cuts of meat.
    Under current rules, the "good" grade of meat has less
marbling and fat than the "prime" or "choice" grades, it said.
    Standards for all of the grades would remain unchanged
under the proposal.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1393>
Delegates to the American Pork Congress
will decide whether or not they want mandatory production
controls when they vote on the official pork producer policy
wednesday, the National Pork Producers Council said.
    The American Pork Congress, APC, delegates, listened to
both sides of the question when former Iowa Congressman Berkley
Bedell and Bill Lesher, USDA Assistant Secretary for Economics
for the years 1981 to 1985 debated at the convention in
Indianapolis.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1398>
The National Pork Board announced at the
American Pork Congress convention in Indianapolis that refunds
under the legislative checkoff program are running less than
expected.
    The Board oversees collection and distribution of funds
from the checkoff program that was mandated by the 1985 farm
bill. Virgil Rosendale, a pork producer from Illinois and
chairman of the National Pork Board, said over 2.2 mln dlrs was
collected in January and refunds are running almost nine pct,
considerably less than expected.
    "We believe that this indicates good producer support for
the new checkoff. We're getting good compliance from markets,
from packers and from dealers," Rosendale said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1557>
The 350 mln Ecu three-year package of
social and structural measures agreed early today by European
Community farm ministers features a plan to compensate farmers
for reducing output of certain surplus products, EC Commission
sources said.
    The ministers agreed that under this "extensification"
scheme, farmers would qualify for compensation if they cut
output of specific products by at least 20 pct.
    The plan would initially apply to cereals, beef, veal and
wine, they added.
    Cereals farmers would have to achieve their output cuts by
reducing acreage, while cattle farmers would reduce their
number of head and vinegrowers would cut yield. In each case,
farmers would have to undertake not to step up their capacity
for output of other products which are in surplus in the EC.
    The sources said payment levels have not yet been fixed but
will be designed to compensate farmers for loss of profit on
the production they forego.
    The sources said the package also contains provisions for
payments to farmers who embark on a program aimed at protecting
or improving the environment.
    It would also mean compensatory allowances in less favoured
farming areas would be extended to crops. At present such
allowances are available only for livestock.
    The package would provide 20 mln Ecus for research into
alternative farming techniques, the sources added.
    At a news conference EC Farm Commissioner Frans Andriessen
said the Commission is also working on proposals to enable the
EC and member states to provide direct income supports for
relatively poor farmers.
    Andriessen did not give full details, but said member state
aid would be subject to "strict criteria to avoid distortion of
competition."
    EC payments would aim to help farmers to survive a
difficult period while the EC tackles the problems of surplus
production.
    The Commission withdrew from the package agreed last night
proposals to pay "early retirement" pensions to farmers aged 55
or over who gave up production. Those who took their land
completely out of farm production, rather than passing it on to
their heirs, would have received more generous payments.
    Andriessen said the Commission plans to present revised
proposals along these lines in an effort to get a scheme
agreed.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1772>
Congressmen from beef producing
states and representatives of the U.S. livestock industry 
urged the Reagan administration to press Japan and South Korea
to open up their markets to imports of beef.
    Testifying at a House subcommittee hearing on livestock
issues, Rep. Hal Daub (R-Nebr.), said the administration should
push hard for greater beef imports by Japan and South Korea.
Daub was joined by several other lawmakers.
    U.S. assistant trade representative Suzanne Earley, replied
"we're not going to let Japan off the hook, or Korea." She
noted trade representative Clayton Yeutter met with a senior
Korean official last week on the beef issue, and that Yeutter
and Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng will visit Tokyo in
April for discussions on farm trade issues.
    Japan maintains a quota on beef imports, set at 58,400
tonnes high quality beef in fiscal 1987. South Korea has banned
beef imports but there are indications Seoul may bow to U.S.
pressure and allow some imports soon, industry officials said.
    In testimony today, Tom Cook, director of industry affairs
for the National Cattlemens Association said "the Congress,
administration and the industry must take a strong, tough and
united stand to impress the Japanese that we mean business and
that we expect them to open their markets."
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1970>
Traded volumes for U.K. Grain and potato
futures in February were down on the previous month while
pigmeat and pig cash settlement futures were higher, official
figures show.
    Combined wheat and barley futures trade declined to 892,700
tonnes from 1.19 mln in January, and the value fell to 97 mln
stg from 129 mln, Grain and Feed Trade Association (GAFTA)
figures show.
    A total of 984,960 tonnes were registered for main crop
potato futures in February valued at 157 mln stg, versus
992,760 and 164 mln stg in January.
    Soymeal futures trade totalled 76,340 tonnes against 90,680
in January, and value declined to nine mln stg from 10 mln.
    Nine pigmeat contracts were traded in February, six more
than in the previous month, representing 450 carcases against
150, valued at 29,347 stg against 9,847 stg.
    Pig cash settlement futures saw 201 contracts traded,
against 19 in January, and the value rose to 659,864 stg from
119,610 stg.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10124>
French Agricultural Minister
Francois Guillaume warned that France would flatly reject
proposed reforms of the European Community, EC, cereals, sugar
and oilseeds sectors, which he said would disrupt these
markets.
    The EC Commission's proposals to shorten the intervention
period and lower monthly premiums for cereals and increase the
financial burden on the sugar producers will also result in
lower real prices for producers, he told farmers here.
    "I give you my word that France, while it will not reject
technical adjustments or serious discussion, will simply reply
in the negative to these bad reforms," Guillaume told the annual
conference of the country's major farm union, FNSEA 
(Federation Nationale des Syndicats Dexploitants Agricoles).
    Community agricultural ministers are due to meet again
Monday to try and agree a package of reforms to curb spiralling
EC output and fix farm prices for 1987/88.
    Relations between the government and farmers have become
strained in France in recent months.
    There have been sporadic but frequent demonstrations by
farmers protesting over sharp falls in meat and pork prices and
further cutbacks in Community milk output.
    But Guillaume's warning that he would reject reorganisation
of the EC cereal and sugar markets -- France being a major
producer of both crops -- won him warm applause from the
FNSEA's farmers.
    His pledge to fight the EC proposals and push for the
complete dismantling of the system of cross border taxes
designed to smooth out currency differences known as Monetary
Compensatory Amounts, MCA's, however, are unlikely to avoid
further protests by producers.
    Farm leader Raymond Lacombe said the union planned to go
ahead with a series of major protests both in France and abroad
against the EC Commission's proposals to overhaul the farm
sector.
    "The Minister's proposals back up our determination to
organise union action in the coming weeks," he told reporters,
adding that this could also act in Guillaume's favour on a
ministerial level.
    Guillaume was head of the FNSEA for many years before being
appointed farm minister last spring.
    Lacombe refused to say whether the farmers felt that
Guillaume was doing a good job as farm minister.
    There have been certain advances on cutting production
costs, reducing fiscal costs and awarding drought aid, but
there are still areas where more could be done such as on
farmers' indebtedness, he said.
    Guillaume told the conference the government will make
available 2.4 billion francs (396 mln dlrs) to help producers
reduce milk output and to encourage older farmers to retire.
    The government has already announced financial aid for the
milk sector and it was not clear how much of the package
announced today was new aid, Lacombe said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10616>
Zimbabwe has confirmed an outbreak of
the animal-borne hoof-and-mouth disease, which prompted
Botswana on Thursday to stop imports of almost all Zimbabwean
meat products.
    Agriculture Ministry Permanent Secretary Robbie Mupawose
said it had been found at a ranch in southwestern Matabeleland
province and that all measures were being taken to contain it
from spreading. "The effect of this outbreak on Zimbabwe's beef
exports is being examined," he added in a statement.
    Zimbabwe exports a wide range of meat products to
neighbouring states and some 8,000 tonnes of high-grade beef to
the European Community annually worth about 48 mln U.S. Dlrs.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11914>
The USDA quarterly hogs and pig report
yesterday showed more hogs on U.S. farms compared to last year
as profitability resulting from low grain prices encouraged
producers to step up production, analysts said.
    Most analysts seemed to agree with Chicago Mercantile
Exchange floor traders that the report will be viewed as
bearish to pork futures and futures prices may open sharply
lower today. Some traders and analysts expect limit declines in
nearby contracts, with spillover selling likely in cattle.
    University of Missouri agronomist Glen Grimes said,"The
report shows that hog producers have responded to a very
desirable feeding ratio that they enjoyed for the past 10
months."
    Shearson Lehman analyst Chuck Levitt said hog futures
prices are above producers' break even points. Even if futures
fell the daily limit of 1.50 cents today, producers could still
lock in a profit, which increases the likelihood of heavy
selling pressure today.
    "We have not had a period of profitability of this
magnitude since last summer," Levitt said. "In fact, hog
operations on many mixed livestock/grain enterprises have been
so profitable that it actually enabled some farmers to get back
on their feet and refinance their loans just based on the hog
operation alone."
    Levitt said the weight breakdown in the report also was
negative, in that some lead time was anticipated before the
slaughter increased from the previous year.
    We expected farmers to increase hog operations, but we
didn't expect this degree of expansion to show up in a 10-state
spring report, Levitt added.
    High hog corn ratios (the number of bushels of corn that
could be bought for 100 lbs of hog) and the resulting increased
profits, encouraged farmers and confinement operations to
increase production starting late last year.
    Analysts also noted that part of the increase in the hog
herd resulted from a revision of the December report and
without the revision, the March report might have been very
close to average expectations.
    Robin Fuller of Agri Analysis said the USDA made a major
upward revision of 105,000 head in the size of the breeding
herd in the December 1 report. So the December report was more
bearish than initially indicated.
    But Fuller, as well as other analysts, expected the report
to be less negative on deferred futures contracts. Distant
contracts are already at a sharp discount to cash because
traders anticipated high farrowing intentions, she noted.
    Discounts in the October and December contracts take into
consideration a six to seven pct increase in March/May
farrowing intentions, which was borne out in the March 1
report, Fuller said.
    Grimes said, "As far as the distant months are concerned,
if our first quarter pig crop is up only six pct and under 60
lb inventories actually up only five pct, it would take a
tremendous discount in price for each percent increase for us
to push down to the prices that the current futures show for
the July and August period."
    Jerry Abbenhaus, analyst for AGE Clearing noted that
distant futures prices are already 15 to 20 dlrs lower than
they were last summer.
    "If cash hogs at the 7-markets last year averaged 61 dlrs
during July, that doesn't mean hogs have to be 15 dlrs cheaper
this year because we have six pct more numbers," he said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11957>
U.S. factory production of inedible
tallow and grease amounted to 421.5 mln lbs in February, vs a
revised 471.5 mln lbs the previous month and 419.2 mln lbs in
the year-ago period, the Census Bureau said.
    The bureau placed February factory production of edible
tallow at 96.9 mln lbs, vs a revised 111.4 mln lbs the previous
month and 122.7 mln lbs in February a year earlier.
    It estimated factory and warehouse stocks of inedible
tallow on February 28 at 410.7 mln lbs, vs a revised 351.6 mln
the previous month and 361.9 mln in February, 1986.
    End-Feb stocks of edible tallow amounted to 41.9 mln lbs,
vs a revised 40.1 mln lbs and 48.6 mln lbs in their respective
periods.
    Factory consumption of inedible tallow and grease in
February was assessed at 238.3 mln lbs, vs a revised 250.4 mln
lbs a month earlier and 220.5 mln lbs in the year-ago period.
    During February, factories used 65.3 mln lbs of edible
tallow, vs a revised 71.8 mln and 84.6 mln, respectively.
    Total factory production and consumption of tallow in the
1987 marketing season, which began Jan 1, vs the 1986 season,
were as follows, in mln lbs -- 
  Production -- 1987     1986
    Inedible    893.0    920.1
      Edible    208.3    274.7
 Consumption --
    Inedible    488.7    473.7
      Edible    137.1    176.4
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11961>
U.S. factory usage of lard in the
production of both edible and inedible products during February
totaled 22.0 mln lbs, vs a revised 20.2 mln lbs in January,
according to Census Bureau figures.
    In the year-earlier period, usage, which includes
hydrogenated vegetable and animal fats and other oils in
process, amounted to 31.4 mln lbs.
    Usage in February comprised 16.6 mln lbs of edible products
and 5.4 mln lbs of inedible products.
    Total lard usage in the 1986/87 marketing season, which
began October 1, amounted to 125.2 mln lbs, vs 185.6 mln lbs in
the year-ago period.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12257>
The United States department of
agriculture estimated live poultry slaughter for the week
ending April 1  as follows, in thousands -
            Current      Previous
 Class      week         week
 Bro/Fry      92,552      95,563 
 Lt Fowl       2,840       3,354 
 Hvy Fowl        651         789 
 Check Total  96,043      99,706 
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12332>
The U.S. Agriculture Department said
an estimated 8,700 head of dairy cattle were slaughtered during
the week ending March 13 as a result of the Whole Herd Dairy
Buyout program.
    The cumulative total of cattle slaughtered under the
program from April 1 through March 13 is estimated at 1,032,300
head, it said.
    Cumulative meat purchases through March 27 total
376,897,330 lbs, the department said.
    Dairy cattle reported for export under the program for the
period April 1 through March 27 totaled an estimated 55,055
head, the department said.
    Live cattle exports are in addition to the meat purchase
requirements, the department said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12372>
The U.S. House Agriculture Committee
approved proposals to extend the life of the Export Enhancement
Program, EEP, through fiscal 1990 and urged the Reagan
administration offer EEP wheat to the Soviet Union.
    The proposals were approved as amendments to a
comprehensive trade bill moving through Congress this year.
    In addition to the amendments on EEP, the committee
approved several proposals which could restrict imports of
lamb, casein, sugar-containing products and tobacco. Those
amendments affecting imports face an uncertain future because
the House Ways and Means Committee, which has overall
jurisdiction over trade legislation, will oppose them,
Congressional sources said.
    The effect of the EEP amendments would be to extend the
life of the program five years through fiscal 1990 rather than
the current three years through fiscal 1988.
    The amendments, offered by Rep. Dan Glickman, D-Kan., also
would increase funding for the program to 2.5 billion dlrs from
1.5 billion now.
    Furthermore, the committee passed an amendment offered by
Rep. Glickman which instructs the U.S. Agriculture Department
to value EEP bonus commodities at market value, not acquisition
value. Glickman said the change would make the program 30 pct
less expensive to operate.
    The provision on EEP wheat to the Soviet Union, offered by
Rep. Bob Smith, R-Ore., does not require the administration
make an offer, but urges such action.
    The committee approved an amendment, offered by Rep. Glenn
English, D-Okla., requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to
begin discussions with other major grain producing countries
aimed at jointly reducing world grain production.
    Trade Representative Clayton Yeutter yesterday opposed the
amendment, saying such commodity agreements do not work.
    Among the host of amendments to restrict imports approved
by the panel, the most significant would require quotas on
imports of goods containing more than 25 pct of a bulk farm
product that is subject to U.S. quotas. The amendment, offered
by Rep. Arlan Stangeland, R-Minn., is aimed primarily at
curbing imports from Canada of products containing sugar and
foreign foods containing dairy products. It also may affect
peanut, cotton and tobacco imports, Committee sources said.
    Another amendment would place a quota on U.S. imports of
casein, a dairy product shipped to the U.S. primarily by New
Zealand and Ireland.
    The panel also voted to apply to lamb imports the same
countercyclical import quota law which is operating for U.S.
beef imports.
    Other miscellaneous amendments included:
    -- Urging the administration consider retaliating against
Japan and South Korea if those countries do not remove
restrictions on beef imports.
    -- Boosting the amount of U.S. grain which must be shipped
each year under a food aid program called Section 416 to
800,000 tonnes from 500,000 tonnes now.
    -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary conduct a study of
the Canadian Wheat Board import licensing system for wheat to
determine if it is a non-tariff trade barrier.
    -- Requiring the Agriculture Secretary reimburse the
National Corn Growers Association up to 500,000 dlrs for the
costs of defending the U.S. feedgrains program against a
Canadian countervailing duty case this year.
    -- Urging the administration oppose the Canadian decision
to apply a duty on U.S. corn imports, and a proposal by the
European Community to apply a vegetable oils tax.
    -- USDA conduct a study of the findings of a National
Commission on Agricultural Export Policy, which recommended a
reorganization of USDA's trade policy apparatus.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12376>
Exotic Newcastle, a highly contagious
disease of pet birds and poultry, has been confirmed in two
pet-bird dealer facilities in Maryland, and New York, the U.S.
Agriculture Department said.
    The department said no domestic poultry are involved in the
outbreak.
    State quarantines have been placed on the two facilities,
in Hunt Valley, Maryland, and Schenectady, New York.
    The most serious U.S. outbreak of the disease occurred in
1971-73 in southern California, where the disease spread from
infected pet birds to a dense poultry population and nearly 12
mln birds, mostly laying hens, were destroyed at a cost of 56
mln dlrs, the department said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12737>
Agriculture Minister Mutsuki Kato said he
will meet U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng here on April
17 and 20 to discuss bilateral farm trade issues. Lyng will
visit Tokyo from April 16 to 27.
    Kato told reporters after a cabinet meeting all topics ofconcern to the U.S. Will be discussed, such as trade in beef

and oranges and import controls on farm products. He said
Shintaro Abe, the ruling Liberal Democratic Party's executive
council chairman, would propose some unspecified measures in
response to demands to ease import controls on U.S. Farm
products. Kato declined to give any details.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13149>
Four U.S. meat processors have asked
the federal government to relax a labelling requirement which
they said discourages the use of mechanically separated meat,
the U.S. Agriculture Department said.
    The petition, filed by Bob Evans Farms, Odom Sausage Co,
Sara Lee Corp and Owens Country Sausage, asks USDA to allow
mechanically separated meat to be listed on product labels as
the species from which it was derived.
    For example, "pork" would be listed on the ingredients
statement instead of "mechanically separated pork."
    Under the petition, the calcium content of the meat product
would have to be stated on the label and the mechanically
separated meat could constitute no more than 10 pct of the meat
and poultry portion of the product.
    Mechanically separated meat is a high-protein, low-cost
product that has been approved for use since 1978, USDA said.
    Current regulations allow use of mechanically separated
ingredients at levels up to 20 pct of the meat and poultry
product, but require it to be listed in the ingredient
statement as "mechanically separated (species)," USDA said.
    USDA said the petitioning firms claimed companies avoid
using mechanically separated meat in their products because the
term carries an "unwarranted negative connotation" in the minds
of many consumers. The petitioners also noted that no similar
regulation exists for poultry products.
    Mechanically separated meat is made by placing carcass
parts, which usually have been hand-trimmed but still have some
remaining meat, into specialized processing equipment.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13380>
Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp
(LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of
beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on
April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system,
against 6,813 a year ago.
    The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading
houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The
tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency's beef
import share. Japan's beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at
93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13382>
Japan's Livestock Industry Promotion Corp
(LIPC) said that on April 28 it will import 7,515 tonnes of
beef for the first half of the 1987 fiscal year started on
April 1 under the simultaneous buy and sell tender system,
against 6,813 a year ago.
    The system calls on the agency to buy beef from trading
houses and simultaneously sell it to users in one tender. The
tender quota in April-September is 10 pct of the agency's beef
import share. Japan's beef import quota in 1987/88 was set at
93,000 tonnes against 85,000 for the same period in 1986/87.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=14434>
New immigration rules relating to
alien farm workers and reportedly being drafted by the U.S.
Agriculture Department are meeting with objections in Congress,
sources on Capitol Hill said.
    USDA is drafting regulations, required by a 1986 law, that
would offer amnesty to illegal aliens if they worked in the
cultivation of fruits, vegetables and other perishable
commodities.
    The department is considering including in its definition
of perishable commodities such farm products as tobacco, hops,
Spanish reeds and Christmas trees, while excluding sugar cane,
the New York Times reported yesterday.
    Rep. Howard Berman, D-Calif., would like to see the
definition extended to include sugar cane, cultivation of which
is "a breeding ground for one of the scandals of the nation,"
Gene Smith, a spokesman for Berman, said.
    Livestock, dairy and poultry producers have been lobbying
USDA hard to have their products covered by the amnesty
provision, farm industry sources said.
    Chuck Fields of the American Farm Bureau Federation said
livestock producers were "desperate" because they fear they will
be unable to retain the many illegal aliens who have joined
that industry.
    A House staff member involved in drafting the landmark 1986
immigration law who asked not to be identified said Congress
did not mean to extend special amnesty provisions to workers
who helped cultivate tobacco, and that inclusion of hops and
Spanish reeds was "marginal."
    In addition, lawmakers made it clear during consideration
of the bill that lumber workers were not to be covered by the
the amnesty provisions, making the inclusion of Christmas trees
"a tough call," this source said.
    USDA officials declined to comment on the draft regulation
except to say it was subject to change before it will be
released, probably some time later this month.
    While lawmakers may object to the USDA rule under
consideration relating to perishable commodities, Congress is
not likely to reopen debate on the controversial immigration
question, congressional sources said.
    The amnesty provision specially designed for farm workers
was crucial to passage of the overall immigration bill.
    Congressional staff members estimate the special farm
worker amnesty provision would apply to between 250,000 to
350,000 aliens. The law would allow eligible farm workers who
worked for 90 days during the year ending May 1, 1986, to apply
for temporary, then permanent, resident status.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=14483>
The Commodity Credit Corporation
(CCC) has transferred 21.0 mln dlrs in credit guarantees
previously earmarked for sales of U.S. corn and 5.0 mln dlrs
for sales of oilseeds to increase available coverage on sales
of U.S. poultry meat to Iraq, the U.S. Agriculture Department
said.
    The department said the action was taken at the request of
Iraq's State Trade Organization for Grains and Foodstuffs.
    The guarantee line for sales of corn has been reduced from
78.0 mln dlrs to 57.0 mln and the line for oilseeds from 5.0
mln dlrs to zero.
    The guarantee line for sales of frozen poultry has been
increased from 30.0 mln dlrs to 56.0 mln dlrs, USDA said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2168>
A study of salmonella poisoning has
uncovered new evidence that the common practice of feeding
antibiotics to cattle is helping to create deadly bacteria that
can infect humans and resist medicines.
    Researchers at the federal Centers for Disease Control
tracked the spread of an unusual strain of salmonella that is
resistant to the drug chloramphenicol and were able to link the
resulting food poisoning to farms that used the drug to promote
the growth of cattle.
    Cattlemen often give their animals a constant supply of
antibiotics in feed to help them grow faster. But critics have
been warning for years that the constant exposure to the drugs
is helping bacteria learn to resist the drugs.
    Industry officials have disputed this, saying the diseases
that develop a resistance in cattle probably do not affect
humans.
    But the new study, reported in Thursday's New England
Journal of Medicine, shows the diseases can spread to humans.
    The research team, led by Dr. John Spika, said the number
of people who have developed the chloramphenicol-resistant
infection in Los Angeles County alone jumped from 69 in 1984 to
298 the following year. Two of those victims died and half the
victims in their study of 45 patients had to be hospitalized
for their illness.
    They also discovered that cooking the meat didn't always
prevent the disease. Only 15 pct of the victims reported eating
raw, infected hamburger. Thus, the researchers concluded, "the
majority of cases appear to have been caused by eating
hamburger that was at least partially cooked."
    The researchers said the results show that "food animals are
a major source of antimicrobial-resistant salmonella infections
in humans, and that these infections are associated with
(antibiotic) use on farms."
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2226>
Delegates from the National Pork
Producers Council, NPPC, yesterday approved programs for
control and eradication of pseudorabies and establishment of a
national safe drug use program.
    The delegate body, attending the American Pork Congress in
Indianapolis, approved a pseudorabies control and eradication
program at the state level after a recommendation from NPPC's
PRV (pseudorabies virus) oversight committee.
    The PRV committee received results of a three year, five
state pilot project which had a 97.5 pct success rate in
eradication of the disease within 116 hog herds. The project
was jointly funded by the USDA and NPPC.
    "Primarily it (the program) allows individual states to
deal with their own problems according to a timetable that
suits them best," Mike Wehler, member of the NPPC's PRV
oversight committee said.
    In regards to safe drug use, the delegates approved a plan
asking that NPPC be active in establishing a national safe drug
use program.
    The program would establish better relationships between
producers and veterinarians and eventually lead to a quality
assurance program in pork production, according to the plan.
    "This program basically communicates to the FDA that we are
concerned about safe drug use and will do our part to use drugs
safely, if FDA will allow the same policy to continue in
effect," Wehler said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2389>
Over 750,000 head of cattle are suffering
the effects of a severe shortage of feed as a result of a
prolonged drought in the normally rich sugar and cattle
producing province of Camaguey, the newspaper Granma reported.
    The province produces 23 pct of Cuba's beef and is the
island's number two province in milk production. Granma said
20,000 head of cattle are now in imminent danger.
    The newspaper said a "cattle emergency" had been decreed and
the cattle are being rounded up.
    Some 110,000 head have been transferred to the sugar cane
conditioning centers where newly harvested cane is cleaned
before being sent to the mills. The cattle are being fed the
residue left after cleaning the cane stalks. 32,000 head have
been sent to nearby provinces of Las Tunas and Ciego de Avila.
    Despite Cuba's ambitous cattle development plans, beef
rationing has been in effect over the past 25 years. In Havana,
each Cuban receives approximately 3/4 lb of rationed beef every
18 days.
    In a major area hit by drought, San Miguel, practically no
rain has fallen in the past 14 months. Grazing lands are
parched and the region was unable to produce 117,000 tonnes of
silage projected in its annual plan.
    Granma said rainfall over the past year has been less than
50 pct of normal precipitation.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2448>
Delegates from the National Pork
Producers Council, NPPC, attending the American Pork Congress
in Indianapolis, voted overwhelmingly to recommend the U.S.
congress not to change the farm bill. While there are no
specific pork items in that legislation, feed grain prices
directly affect pork producer profits, the NPPC said.
    Don Gingerich, a delegate from Iowa, said "to have
unpredictable changes come along periodically makes it very
difficult to plan and causes a lot of disruption."
    Other members said the farm bill has some imperfections but
that's a price pork producers are willing to pay for
legislative stability, an NPPC spokesman said.
    Delegates also passed unanimously a resolution that
Congress and the administration should act swiftly to identify
problems in the farm credit system.
    Farm Credit Task Force chairman and newly elected Vice
President of the NPPC Ray Hankes, said delegates wanted a
program that all commodity groups can work with and bring a 
resolution to this problem with legislators in Washington.
    Hankes added that the National Pork Producers Council will
work to save farmers and keep credit available, but not to save
or create any one credit system.

 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2495>
United Food and Commercial Workers Union
Local 222 rejected a new contract proposal from Iowa Beef
Processors Inc and remain out of work, union spokesman Allen
Zack said.
    In mid-December, Iowa Beef, a subsidiary of Occidental
Petroleum Corp, closed its beef processing plant at Dakota
City, Nebraska, because it said "it had no alternative to
threats by meatpackers to disrupt operations."
    About 2,800 UFCWU members are affected by what the union
terms as a lockout.  A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant
expired December 13.
    Zack said IBP's proposal included elimination of a two-tier
wage structure, a 60 cent an hour wage cut for slaughterers and
a 45 cent an hour wage reduction for processors.
    The new proposal also included a bonus system of 1,000 dlrs
for workers who had been at the plant for two years, Zack said.
The annual turnover rate at the facility is 100 pct, he said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2572>
Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor
traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating
today's hog slaughter at about 300,000 to 305,000 head versus
292,000 week ago and 316,000 a year ago.
    Saturday's hog slaughter is guesstimated at about 30,000 to
55,000 head.
    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to
130,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 119,000 a year ago.
    Saturday's cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 20,000
to 40,000 head.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2594>
U.K. Officials are studying the possible
link between the use of antibiotics in calf feeds and the
spread of drug-resistant strains of salmonella in humans, a
Ministry of Agriculture official said.
    A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine
yesterday stated that the spread of an unusual strain of
salmonella that is resistant to the drug chloramphenicol had
been shown to be linked to farms that used the drug to promote
the growth of cattle.
   The U.K. Ministry of Agriculture is working with the
Department of Health and the Public Health Laboratory to
investigate the whole subject of resistant strains of
salmonella.
    "The Ministry of Agriculture is concerned about the possible
effects on human and animal health," the official said. The
government is also studying a recommendation from the Farm
Animal Welfare Council (FAWC) to restrict the trade of calves
under 56 days old through markets. The FAWC says this would
help reduce the spread of salmonella.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2851>
U.S. Agriculture Department animal
health officials are conducting a national survey of live-bird
markets and auctions to check for signs of avian influenza, an
infectious viral disease of poultry, the department said.
    The survey will locate poultry dealers and live-bird
markets that sell live birds directly to the consumer and once
the dealers and markets are identified, there will be tests to
determine any past or present exposure to avian influenza
viruses, it said.
    In 1983-84, an outbreak of avian influenza in Pennsylvania,
Maryland, Virginia and New Jersey cost taxpayers 65 mln dlrs to
control and required the destruction of more than 17 mln birds,
it said.
    The survey is expected to be completed by April 15.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2881>
The National Pork Producers Council,
NPPC, announced at this year's American Pork Congress, APC,
that the Congress and trade show will be divided into two parts
in 1988.
    Next years APC, held in Atlanta, will be a business session
only and will continue to be the first week of March.
    The trade show is being changed into a new international
event called the World Pork Expo. The first expo will be held
in June 1988 in Des Moines with an expanded format, they said.
    Executive vice-president Orville Sweet said the decision to
spilt the show and Congress came about because there are
producers who never get to see the trade show floor.
    "It makes sense that we divide the business session from
the trade show," Sweet said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2978>
Australian beef output declined to
104,353 tonnes carcass weight in January from 112,262 in
December and 105,715 a year earlier, the Statistics Bureau
said.
    This followed a decline in the cattle slaughter to 472,900
head from 509,500 in December and 478,800 in January 1986, the
bureau said.
    But cumulative beef output for the first seven months of
fiscal 1986/87 ending June 30 rose to 838,416 tonnes from
746,837 a year earlier following a rise in cattle slaughter to
3.84 mln head from 3.40 mln.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3057>
Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor
traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating
today's hog slaughter at about 285,000 to 300,000 head versus
292,000 week ago and 309,000 a year ago.
    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 125,000 to
131,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 119,000 a year ago.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3084>
Three London markets which trade potato,
soymeal and meat futures said they will merge to form a new
Agricultural Futures Exchange.
    Legal advisers have been instructed to implement the
amalgamation of the London Potato Futures Association, LPFA,
the London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE, and the Grain and Feed
Trade Association's, GAFTA, Soya Bean Meal Futures Association,
SOMFA. No timetable was given.
    Members of the three exchanges have been consulted,
Agricultural Futures Exchange secretary Bill Englebright told
Reuters, and no objections have been raised to the merger.
    Three markets are involved at present but the new exchange
could ultimately combine five markets.
    Discussions are taking place with the Baltic International
Freight Futures Exchange, BIFFEX, and the GAFTA London Grain
Futures Market is considering the possibility of joining the
other markets, market officials said.
    The BIFFEX board is expected to reach a decision on the
merger at its meeting at the end of this month, after members
are consulted at a meeting on March 16.
    The grain futures market also intends to consult its
members soon, GAFTA director general James Mackie said.
    The aim of the amalgamation is to limit regulatory and
administrative costs and achieve the recognition required under
the 1986 Financial Services Act. This legislation requires a
futures market to become a Recognised Investment Exchange, RIE,
for trading to continue.
    Representatives of all the futures markets on the Baltic
Exchange have been discussing the possibility of a single RIE
structure since the beginning of the year.
    The new exchange now planned will apply to the Securities
and Investments Board for recognition as an RIE "at the
appropriate time," the Agricultural Futures Exchange said.
    "This commitment by the markets will enable progress to be
made to develop a stronger and more effective exchange to the
benefit of all those involved in the industry," the chairman of
the formation committee, Pat Elmer, said.
    The merged markets will remain at the Baltic Exchange.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3278>
The London Meat Futures Exchange, LMFE,
will cease trading in its deliverable pigmeat contract from
April 3, the LMFE said.
    The move will enable the exchange to concentrate on the
cash settled contracts introduced last year.
    "This allows the exchange and its members to concentrate our
marketing on the pig and live cattle contracts," LMFE official
Peter Freeman said. "These two have already shown their
effectiveness for hedging, and the trade in both contracts is
increasing," he added.
    "Using the futures market allows better planning and forward
price fixing that our industry needs," chairman Pat Elmer said.
    Some 131 pig contracts were settled against the Meat and
Livestock Commission's Average All Pigs Price in February,
which represents hedging for over 13,000 pigs, more than twice
the number cash-settled in January, the LMFE said.
    Cash settlement on the new cattle and pig contracts was
introduced last June in the expectation that the appeal of the
futures market to farmers, abattoirs and users of meat would
increase because of the absence of a delivery requirement.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3318>
About 800 members of the United Food and
Commercial Workers Union, UFCWU, struck John Morrell's Sioux
City, Iowa, pork processing plant at midnight Sunday, a
spokesman for the UFCWU national said.
    Meatpackers at the plant have been working without a
contract since the old pact expired January 31, UFCWU spokesman
John Mancuso said. The plant can slaughter and process about
13,000 to 14,000 hogs a day, he estimated.
    The UFCWU bargaining committee and full membership rejected
in late January a contract proposal by John Morrell, a
subsidiary of United Brands Inc, he said.

</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3339>
The Commodity Credit Corporation,
CCC, has accepted a bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of
13 head of dairy cattle to Morocco, the U.S. Agriculture
Department said.
    The department said the bonus awarded was 1,505.00 dlrs per
head and was made to Brown Swiss Enterprises Inc. It will be
paid in the form of commodities from CCC inventories.
    The cattle are for delivery during March 9-September 30,
1987.
    The department said the purchase completes the Export
Enhancement Program initiative for dairy cattle to Morocco
announced on April 16, 1986.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3340>
The Commodity Credit Corporation,
CCC, has accepted a bonus offer from an exporter on the sale of
75 head of dairy cattle to the Canary Islands, the U.S.
Agriculture Department said.
    The department said the bonus awarded was 1,459.00 dlrs per
head and was made to T.K. International Inc. It will be paid in
the form of commodities from the inventory of CCC stocks.
    The cattle are for delivery during March-June, 1987, it
said.
    An additional 3,925 head of dairy cattle are still
available to the Canary Islands under the Export Enahcnement
Program initiative announced July 28, 1986, it said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3595>
Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor
traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating
today's hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 308,000 head versus
305,000 week ago and 308,000 a year ago.
    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to
132,000 head versus 130,000 week ago and 126,000 a year ago.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3901>
Argentine meat exports during
Jan/Dec 1986 totalled 220,911 tonnes, against 223,204 tonnes
shipped in the same 1985 period, the National Meat board said.
    Shipments in tonnes with comparative figures for the 1985
period, in brackets, included: beef 120,184 (137,686), horse
meat 25,651 (33,892) and beef offal 50,100 (47,745).
    Argentina's meat exports totalled 20,481 tonnes in December
1986, against 15,801 tonnes in the same 1985 month.
    Shipments in tonnes, with comparative figures for December
1985, in brackets, included: beef 14,384 (10,339), horse meat
1,609 (1,539) and beef offal 3,388 (3,098), the board said.
    Main destinations for refrigerated beef (bone in
equivalent) were as follows, in tonnes, with comparative
figures for 1985 in brackets:
    E.C. 46,300 (49,700), Israel 16,200 (17,600), Brazil 18,100
(unavailable), Peru 8,100 (2,300), Angola 4,800 (12,100), Chile
3,400 (8,200), Switzerland 3,000 (3,000), Canary Islands 2,400
(3,700), Singapore 1,900 (1,700), Aruba/Curazao 1,600 (1,700).
    Main destinations for canned meat and cooked beef (bone in
equivalent) in tonnes, with figures for 1985 in brackets, were:
United States 88,300 (102,900), E.C. 30,700 (24,100).
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4022>
Argentine meat exports during
Jan/Feb 1987 totalled 39,714 tonnes, against 36,594 tonnes
shipped in the same 1986 period, National Meat board said.
    Shipments in tonnes with comparative figures for the 1986
period, in brackets, included: beef 26,945 (20,096), horse meat
3,257 (4,211) and beef offal 7,660 (10,502).
    Argentine's meat exports totalled 20,243 tonnes in February
1987, against 19,217 tonnes shipped in the same 1986 month.
    Shipments in tonnes, with comparative figures for February
1986, in brackets, included: beef 13,272 (11,464), horse meat
1,543 (2,083) and beef offal 4,476 (4,672), the board added.
    Main destinations for refrigerated beef (bone in
equivalent) were as follows, in tonnes, with comparative
figures for 1986 in brackets -
    EC 5,500 (7,900), Brazil 5,200 (unavailable), Israel 3,700
(3,000), Peru 2,500 (800), Singapore 500 (300), Switzerland 500
(400), Canary Islands 500 (300), Malta 500 (700), Aruba/Curazao
200 (300), Chile 100 (600).
    Main destinations for canned meat and cooked beef (bone in
equivalent), in tonnes with comparative figures for Jan/Feb
1986, in brackets, were -
    United States 11,200 (13,400), EC 4,700 (5,100).
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4101>
Australia expects meat and livestock
exports to the Middle East to maintain an upward trend this
year, managing director of the Australian Meat and Livestock
Corp, Peter Frawley, said.
    He told Reuters an improvement in the economic climate and
less competition from the European Community should lead in the
Gulf area to higher beef sales, which dropped from 33,000
tonnes in 1980 to just 2,300 tonnes last year.
    "In the last three to four months there has been a
resurgence of inquiries," he said.
    Frawley is on a Gulf tour which will also take him to Saudi
Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait to assess market
potential.
    On beef exports, he said a 50 pct drop in European
Community intervention stock in the past 12 months would help
Australian sales.
    The fall meant the EC was not as aggressive in these
markets, where the Australian trade was the natural source of
supply, and Australia was "now back in," Frawley said.
    He said there was a debate in Australia as to whether the
Middle East market for livestock, which accounts for two-thirds
of meat export value to the area, would be maintained.
    He believed the trade would remain with a continuing demand
for fresh meat.
    The number of live sheep shipped last year to Saudi Arabia,
the biggest single market, was 3,214,159 compared with
2,939,226 in 1985. The numbers shipped to the United Arab
Emirates and Bahrain fell, however.
    Frawley said the slackening in demand in the Gulf had been
offset by other Arab countries around the Mediterranean.
    Other than livestock, Australia's overall meat sales to the
Middle East rose to 72,374 tonnes in 1986 from 52,403 tonnes
the previous year, largely due to the sale of 25,790 tonnes of
mutton and lamb to Iran.
    Australia sold 9,824 tonnes to Iran in 1985 after being
virtually excluded by New Zealand competition for several
years. Frawley said the 1986 sale contract had included a
barter provision, but Iran had paid in full in cash.
    Negotiations with the Iranians for 1987 shipments were
currently under way, with Iran again seeking credit and barter
provisions, he said.
    Frawley said there had been a tremendous growth in demand
for chilled lamb in the last four to five years and he
predicted this would continue.
    "The Middle East, and the Gulf in particular, is now
Australia's largest market for lamb, chilled and flown in.
Australia is in an ideal position to provide the supplies if
the market is willing to pay a premium for a fresh, young
product," he said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4206>
Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor
traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating
today's hog slaughter at about 290,000 to 310,000 head versus
309,000 week ago and 328,000 a year ago.
    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 128,000 to
131,000 head versus 129,000 week ago and 127,000 a year ago.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4503>
Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting a
lockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska processing plant and plans
to resume operations March 16, United Food and Commercial
Workers Union spokesman Allen Zack said by phone from his
Washington, D.C. headquarters.
    Iowa Beef, a susbsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp,
mailed a letter to members of UFCWU Local 222 informing them a
lockout imposed by the company on December 14 would be lifted
and meatpackers could return to work under Iowa Beef's
"revised, last and best final offer," according to Zack.
    The letter was signed by four managers at the Dakota City
plant.
    Iowa Beef closed the proessing plant indefinitely in
mid-December because, it said, it had no alternative to threats
by meatpackers to disrupt operations.
    About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by the
shutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expired
December 13.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4514>
Iowa Beef Processors Inc is lifting a
lockout at its Dakota City, Nebraska, processing plant and
plans to resume operations March 16, United Food and Commercial
Workers (UFCW) Union spokesman Allen Zack said.
    Iowa Beef mailed a letter to members of UFCW Local 222
informing them a lockout imposed by the company December 14
would be lifted and meatpackers could return to work under Iowa
Beef's "revised, last and best final offer," Zack said.
    Iowa Beef had closed the plant indefinitely in mid-December
because it said it had no alternative to threats by meatpackers
to disrupt operations.
    About 2,800 members of Local 222 are affected by the
shutdown. A 3-1/2 year labor contract at the plant expired
December 13.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4564>
Live cattle futures posted a robust
rally today after a major beef packing company said it would
end a lockout at its slaughtering plant in Dakota City, Neb.
    April delivery cattle on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
closed at 64.45 cents a pound, up 0.83 cent, as the market
expected demand for live animals to increase as the plant
restarts operations.
    Iowa Beef Processors, a division of Occidental Petroleum,
said it planned to reopen the plant, one of the largest in the
nation, on March 16. The plant has been closed since Dec. 14,
the day after a contract between IBP and Local 222 of the
United Food and Commercial Workers Union expired.
    The plant employs 2,800 workers and can slaughter several
thousand animals a day, a company spokesman said.
    The company said it locked out union workers because they
threatened to disrupt operations. It was unclear whether union
meatpackers would return to work. They rejected the company's
latest contract offer March 5.
    Traders said cattle prices advanced at midsession as rumors
circulated that the lockout was ending, and gains were further
fueled by a noticeable increase in demand for live animals on
cash markets in Nebraska and the Texas Panhandle.
    The rally in cattle also boosted values of live hogs and
frozen pork bellies, which also were supported by indications
that producers were expanding their hog herds at a slower rate
than previously expected.
    Petroleum futures posted a modest rally on the New York
Mercantile Exchange.
    But a report that the Soviet Union planned to reduce the
price of its crude oil exports may pressure the market Friday,
said Nauman Barakat, petroleum analyst in New York with Smith
Barney, Harris Upham and Co.
    Buying by companies that deal in petroleum helped prices
recover from early weakness, traders said.
    Gold futures rallied, partly in response to strength in the
silver market, on the Commodity Exchange in New York. Silver
prices rallied after a U.S. brokerage house recommended its
customers buy the metal, traders said.
    Coffee futures drifted lower in response to a report that
Colombia lowered the price of its exports, traders said.
    Sugar prices closed slightly higher on the Coffee, Sugar
and Cocoa Exchange despite a large export sale by the European
Commission on Wednesday.
    Soybeans were higher, wheat lower and corn mixed on the
Chicago Board of Trade.
    Soybeans were boosted by expectations that the Agriculture
Department would report a healthy signup for the Conservation
Reserve Program, which pays farmers to leave highly erodible
land idle instead of planting a crop, traders said.
    Concern that a strike by Brazilian seamen might interrupt
exports of soybeans from Brazil, where the harvest is just
beginning, also underpinned prices, they said.
    Wheat prices were pressured by selling in response to
trends on price charts, they said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4577>
Local 222 of the United Food and
Commercial Workers Union said it is calling a membership
meeting, possibly Sunday, to discuss its response to a decision
by Iowa Beef Processors Inc to lift a lockout at its Dakota
City, Nebraska plant and resume operations.
    The UFCWU will consider all options available to it
including a strike or returning to work under IBP's last labor
contract proposal, a spokeswoman for Local 222 said by phone.
    About 2,800 UFCWU members have been locked out at the
Dakota City plant since December 14.
    IBP is a subsidiary of Occidental Petroleum Corp.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4631>
The Agriculture Ministry said it set
Japan's beef import quota for the six months from April 1 at
93,000 tonnes, up from 83,000 in the second half of 1986/87 and
85,000 a year earlier.
    Under an agreement with the U.S. And Australia, Japan has
been increasing imports by 9,000 tonnes a year from March 31,
1985, to reach a projected 177,000 tonnes in the year to March
31, 1988.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4636>
Australian beef output is forecast to
decline to 1.34 mln tonnes carcass weight in 1987 and 1.36 mln
in 1988 from 1.44 mln in 1986, the Australian Meat and
Live-Stock Corp (AMLC) said.
    Exports of beef/veal are also predicted to decline to
480,000 tonnes shipped weight in 1987 from 515,000 in 1986, and
then rally to 490,000 in 1988, the AMLC said in a summary of
its bi-annual meat and livestock forecasts.
    It sees cattle numbers remaining at around the 1986 level
of 23.2 mln beasts in both years because herd rebuilding is
expected to be slower than previously forecast.
    Beef producers are becoming more confident that higher
returns in the market, both domestically and overseas, will
continue, the AMLC said.
    The slow herd build-up and the forecast lower production is
expected to bring about a slight drop in both export and
domestic consumption this year, it said.
    The forecast does not assume a turnaround in production
levels until late next year.
    It said the outlook for beef exports as a proportion of
output remains much the same as last year when it was around 55
pct of total production. In 1985 it was 52 pct.
    The increase in exports of beef as a percentage of
production has mainly been attributed to the decline in the
Australian dollar, the AMLC said.
    It also forecast that Australia's four major markets, the
U.S., Japan, Canada and Taiwan, will continue to dominate the
chilled and frozen beef export markets. They take collectively
around 94 pct of total Australian exports.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4833>
Haiti's agriculture minister
yesterday announced his department will permit the importation
of 730 black Creole pigs, which had been banned from the island
nation since 1983.
    Between 1981 and 1983, a team of Canadian veterinarians
funded by the United States, Canada, Mexico and Costa Rica
supervised the slaughter of all Haiti's 1,200,000 pigs under a
program to eradicate African swine flu.
    Today's announcement that Catholic Relief Services
(CARITAS) can import 730 Jamaican pigs comes after months of
protests by farmers who had owned 90 pct of the slaughtered
pigs.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5009>
The American Meat Institute, AME,
said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliate
against a European Community meat inspection requirement.
    AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry would
file a petition challenging Korea's ban of U.S. meat products.
    Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME and
other livestock and farm groups intended to file a petition
under Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
against an EC directive that, effective April 30, will require
U.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.
    The meat industry will seek to have the U.S. government
retaliate against EC and Korean exports if their complaints are
upheld.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5031>
The American Meat Institute, AME,
said it intended to ask the U.S. government to retaliate
against a European Community meat inspection requirement.
    AME President C. Manly Molpus also said the industry would
file a petition challenging Korea's ban of U.S. meat products.
    Molpus told a Senate Agriculture subcommittee that AME and
other livestock and farm groups intended to file a petition
under Section 301 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
against an EC directive that, effective April 30, will require
U.S. meat processing plants to comply fully with EC standards.
  
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5333>
Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor
traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating
today's hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 302,000 head versus
293,000 week ago and 309,000 a year ago.
    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 123,000 to
126,000 head versus 123,000 week ago and 121,000 a year ago.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5400>
The Commodity Credit Corporation
(CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale
of 380 head of dairy cattle to Kuwait, the U.S. Agriculture
Department said.
    The dairy cattle are for shipment on or before May 31,
1987, it said.
    The bonus of 1,465.00 dlrs per head was made to American
Marketing Services, Inc, and will be paid in the form of
commodities from the CCC inventory, it said.
    An additional 761 head of dairy cattle are still available
to Gulf countries (kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, Qatar and the United
Arab Emirates under the Export Enhancement Program initiative
announced October 30, 1986, it said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5445>
Members of the United Food and
Commercial Workers union, UFCW, local 222 voted Sunday to go on
strike against Iowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Nebraska,
plant, effective Tuesday.
    The company submitted their latest offer to the union at
the same time announcing that they would end the lockout as of
tomorrow that started December 14.
    Members unanimously rejected the latest company offer that
was submitted to the union late last week. An overwhelming
majority of the approximately 2,500 members attending the
meeting then voted to go on strike, UFCW union spokesman Allen
Zack said.
    Zack said the company's offer for a cut in wages was
unacceptable and said IBP was refusing to bargain in good
faith.
    IBP's latest offer included wage cuts of 60 cents an hour
for slaughter operations and a 45 cents an hour cut in pay for
processing workers. The cut follows the 1.07 dlr cut in pay
workers received in 1982 and the wage freeze that has lasted
since then, Zack said.
    The offer also eliminated overtime after eight hours
following the normal 40 hour work week, he added.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5487>
The United Food and Commercial Workers
union, Local 222 said its members voted Sunday to strike the
Iowa Beef Processors Inc Dakota City, Neb., plant, effective
Tuesday.
    The company said it submitted its latest offer to the union
at the same time announcing that on Tuesday it would end a
lockout that started December 14.
    Union members unanimously rejected the latest company offer
that was submitted to the union late last week, UFCW union
spokesman Allen Zack said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5812>
The Agriculture Ministry is expected to
reduce official intervention prices for beef and pork in
1987/88 starting in April, but the cutback ratio has not been
set yet, industry sources said.
    Production prices, the basis for setting intervention
prices, have been falling because of declining compound feed
prices due to low coarse grain import prices, they said.
    Last November an advisory panel urged the government to
work on reducing officially set high farm product prices to
levels closer to international values, the sources added.
    In Japan the government maintains a price stabilisation
zone system for beef and pork to support domestic producers.
    The stabilisation zone is kept by the semi-government
Livestock Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) through a buffer stock
operation in the wholesale market.
    The 1987/88 beef and pork price stabilisation zone will be
set by the end of March after an advisory panel to the
Agriculture Ministry recommends the price zone at a meeting on
March 25, ministry officials said. At present, the standard or
bottom price of castrated wagyu beef, known as marbled beef, is
1,400 yen per kilo, while its ceiling is 1,820, they said.
    The standard price of other beef, mainly produced from
dairy steers, is now 1,090 yen per kilo and the ceiling is
1,420, the officials said. The pork standard price is now 540
yen per kilo and the ceiling 760.
    They said the domestic beef intervention price influences
imported beef selling prices on the domestic market.
    Japan sets an annual beef import quota. A semi-government
body imports most of this and releases it to wholesalers or
processors in line with the standard price of other beef
categories in an attempt to avoid jeoparadising domestic beef
prices, they said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5896>
Livestock analysts expect renewed bull
spreading in live cattle futures following yesterday's USDA
7-state cattle on feed report.
    The USDA reported high placements in February, which may
weigh on back months of cattle futures. Meanwhile, continued
strong marketings during the month will support the April
contract.
    Contracts for June delivery forward could open 25 to 50
cents lower while April will likely open about steady, analysts
said.
    Cheap corn is still the main incentive for putting cattle
on feed, according to Smith Barney livestock analyst Tom
O'Hare. "They have no place to send the grain," he said.
    Strong daily fundamentals may add to nearby support while
the current discount of deferred months to the cash market may
offset much of the effect of the report, analysts said.
    "The cash market is strong and may overshadow the report,"
said Robin Fuller, analyst for Agri Analysis. She added that
even though placements came in above the average trade guess,
many traders had expected high placements.
    Placements are not that negative, especially since the
technical correction in June and August live cattle futures
since last week, GH Miller analyst Jerry Gidel said.
    He said the current marketing posture will provide added
support to the nearby month. Feedlot marketings have been
running at a heavier than expected pace.
    Chuck Levitt, analyst for Shearson Lehman said that with
the number of cattle on feed down five pct at the beginning of
the year, a three pct decline in marketings was expected. But
the report for January showed marketings at 101 pct of a year
ago and in February marketings were at 100 pct, Levitt noted.
    "So far we haven't seen any decline in marketings. They
(feedlot operators) are marketing more cattle than they had
intended for the first quarter, which is a bullish
development," Levitt said.
    Gidel also noted that marketings for the early part of
March are running ahead of a year ago. Feedlots are not falling
behind and are holding that 100 pct marketing pace.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7101>
Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor
traders and commission house representatives are guesstimating
today's hog slaughter at about 295,000 to 305,000 head versus
307,000 week ago and 311,000 a year ago.
    Cattle slaughter is guesstimated at about 124,000 to
128,000 head versus 127,000 week ago and 126,000 a year ago.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7924>
Chicago Mercantile Exchange floor
traders' immediate reaction to the cold storage report for pork
bellies was neutral to slightly negative.
    Frozen pork belly stocks at 34.5 mln lbs on March 1
compared with a revised 34.9 mln lbs on February 1 for a net
out movement of 0.5 mln lbs.
    The number on hand compared with trade guesses of 33.5 to
36 mln lbs and the year ago figure of 51.2 mln lbs.
    Traders said the figure was toward the upper end of
expectations and may provide slight downward pressure because
of recent sharp gains in futures.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7962>
The U.S. Commodity Credit
Corporation (CCC) has accepted a bid for an export bonus to
cover a sale of 186 head of dairy cattle to Egypt, the U.S.
Agriculture Department said.
    The department said the cattle are for delivery May 7-June
7, 1987, and the bonus awarded was 1,888.06 dlrs per head.
    The bonus was made to First Interstate Trading Co and will
be paid to the exporter in the form of commodities from CCC
stocks, the department said.
    An additional 7,959 head of dairy cattle are still
available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program
initiative announced September 12, 1986, it said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8008>
The USDA monthly cold storage report
for meats is expected to have little, if any, effect on
livestock and meat futures at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange
Monday and daily fundamentals will likely provide the bulk of
direction, livestock analysts said.
    The increase of 66.4 mln lbs in total poultry offsets the
22.6 mln lbs decline in total red meats. Fundamentals may
provide most of the direction in futures on Monday, they said.
    "I think the market is going to be looking at some other
things and accentuate whatever the action of cash markets might
be early next week," Jerry Gidel, livestock analyst for GH
Miller, said.
    Shearson Lehman livestock analyst Chuck Levitt said futures
will be in the shadow of a little larger seasonal hog
marketings pace next week. Also, Easter ham business was
completed this week and there may be less aggressive interest
for pork in general next week.
    "We needed some help from the cold storage report to avert
a possible setback next week in the pork complex," Levitt said.
    Analysts agreed with CME floor traders and called the belly
figure neutral to slightly negative. Although belly stocks were
down 33 pct from last year, they exceeded the average
expectation and actually showed a lighter than expected decline
from last month due to an adjustment to last month's holdings,
they said.
    However, analysts noted that the amount of bellies put in
storage has been light since the beginning of March and this is
a potentially bullish situation.
    Glenn Grimes, agronomist at the University of Missouri,
said, "I would not look for (belly) storage during the next
month or two to be heavier than a year ago - I think it will be
less."
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8574>
U.S. Agriculture Secretary
Richard Lyng will ask the Japanese Government to remove all
beef import restrictions when he visits there next month.
    Lyng's remarks came in a speech at Oklahoma State
University today.
    "We think Japanese consumers should have the same freedom
of choice as our consumers. Look at all the Japanese cameras
and tape recorders in this room. We know they'd buy more beef
if they had the opportunity," Lyng said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8705>
The National Weather Service said a
powerful winter storm centered over north central Oklahoma was
spreading snow from western and central Kansas across much of
Nebraska to southern and eastern South Dakota.
    Rain was reported across parts of Minnesota, Iowa, eastern
Kansas, Missouri and eastern Oklahoma, with showers and a few
thundershowers extending from Arkansas through the lower
Mississippi Valley to Alabama and northwest Florida.
    Strong winds of 20 to 35 mph with some stronger gusts were
reported across much of the Plains, causing considerable
blowingand drifting snow. A blizzard warning continued this
morning across most of western Kansas. A winter storm warning
was issued this morning over central and northeast Nebraska.
    Weather advisories were posted for this morning over
central Kansas and central and southeast sections of South
Dakota where two to five inches of snow could accumulate.
    Locally heavy rains accompanied the storm over portions of
the central Plains. Flash flood watches were issued for this
morning across the eastern half of Kansas.
    A flood warning continues today for eastern Nebraska.
Widespread lowland and small stream flooding is expected to
continue over most of eastern Nebraska through Wednesday.
    Due to cold, damp and windy conditions, livestock
advisories were posted this morning across central and
southeast portions of South Dakota.
    As the storm moves north across the central Plains, winter
storm watches were issued over south central South Dakota, late
tonight and Wednesday over west central Minnesota.
    Elsewhere, a travelers advisory remains in effect this
morning over northeast New Mexico and the Oklahoma and Tecas
Panhandle for blowing snow and slick roadways and across the
mountains and deserts of southern California for strong gusty
winds of 25 to 40 mph. Gale warnings were issued for today
along the central California Coast.
    Mostly clear skies extended from the Great Lakes and Ohio
Valley through the central Appalachians to the central Atlantic
Coast and New England.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8744>
Honduras will tender March 26 under
PL480 for U.S. and non-U.S. flag vessels to import 1,500 tonnes
of tallow in bulk, an agent for the country said.
    The agent said delivery includes laydays of April 5-15.
    Offers are due by 1200 hrs EST, March 26, and will remain
valid until the close of business the following day, the agent
said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8800>
Emergency action to distribute
European Community (EC) food surpluses to the poor has proved
so successful that the EC executive Commission may propose a
permanent scheme, a Commission spokesman said.
    Almost 60,000 tonnes of food was taken out of EC stores
between January 20, when Agriculture Ministers approved the
scheme, and March 13, according to latest commission figures.
    The food, including 30,000 tonnes of cereals, 6,000 tonnes
of sugar, 4,000 tonnes of beef and 13,300 tonnes of butter, has
been distributed to the needy through charities.
    The present scheme was approved as an emergency measure to
help poor people affected by this year's unusually cold winter
and will end on March 31.
    But the spokesman said the commission will consider whether
to propose it be replaced by an all-year-round system.
    The commission estimates that up to March 13 the temporary
scheme cost between 63 and 68 mln European currency units
(72/78 mln dlrs). This is above the 50 mln Ecu (57 mln dlr)
ceiling originally envisaged by the Ministers.
    However, commission sources said the real cost was small if
account is taken of the expense of keeping food in store until
its quality and value deteriorates.
    On the other hand, the impact of the temporary scheme on EC
food surpluses has been slight. EC surplus food stocks at
January 31 included 1.28 mln tonnes of butter, 520,000 tonnes
of beef and over 10 mln tonnes of cereals.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9060>
Leading U.S. farm state senators are
seeking to insert into the Senate's omnibus trade bill a
provision that would broaden eligibility requirements under the
U.S. Agriculture Department's export enhancement program, EEP,
to include traditional buyers of U.S. farm products, including
the Soviet Union, Senate staff said.
    Under existing criteria, USDA can offer EEP subsidies to
recoup export markets lost to competing nations' unfair trading
practices.
    Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.)
is leading a group of farm state senators in an effort to
broaden the criteria in such a way as to enable Moscow to be
eligible for the subsidies, sources said.
    The senators -- including Senate Finance Committee Chairman
Lloyd Bentsen (D-Tex.), Max Baucus (D-Mont.), David Pryor
(D-Ark.), John Melcher (D-Mont.) and Thad Cochran (R-Miss.) --
also may fold into the trade bill a measure to shield pork
producers and processors from Canadian imports.
    The measure, sponsored by Sen. Charles Grassley (R-Iowa),
would clarify the definition of "industry" in determining whether
or not imports were causing injury to U.S. producers.
    Grassley's bill stems from a 1985 decision by the
International Trade Commission that imports from Canada of live
swine -- but not fresh, chilled and frozen pork -- were harming
U.S. producers.
    The bill's proponents have argued Canada has simply
replaced shipments of live hogs with fresh pork.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9290>
The Commodity Credit Corporation has
accepted a bid for an export bonus to cover the sale of 760
head of dairy cattle to Egypt, the U.S. Agriculture Department
said.
    The delivery period for the cattle is April, 1987-June,
1988, it said.
    The bonus of 1,870.00 dlrs per head was made to Esmah
Nevada Inc and will be paid in the form of commodities from the
CCC inventory.
    An additional 7,199 head of dairy cattle are still
available to Egypt under the Export Enhancement Program
initiative announced September 12, 1986, the department said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9585>
International Minerals and
Chemical Corp said its board approved a 50 mln dlrs budget over
the next several years to build production facilities for a
newly developed product to be used to improve the lean weight
of hogs.
    The new product, porcine somatotropin (PST) is described as
a natural bio-synthetic protein that improves the lean weight
and rate of weight gain, as well as reduces the cost of feed
for market hogs, the company said.
    Specific details of the PST production project, including
sites for proposed facilities and engineering plans, were not
disclosed. International Minerals said it set a completion
target for the spring of 1989, by which time necessary Food and
Drug Administration approvals are expected to be obtained.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9754>
Japan's plan to cut beef intervention
prices for the fiscal year starting April 1 will not boost
demand because of strict supply controls and a complex
distribution system, Japanese and U.S. Industry sources said.
    "Government beef policy protects farmers rather than meeting
consumers' demands and the cutback ... Is too marginal," a
Housewives Association of Japan official said.
    Despite mounting U.S. Pressure on Japan to open farm
markets, beef is strictly controlled by the government, which
maintains a price stabilisation zone to protect farmers.
    Under the plan, expected to be announced this month, the
standard or bottom price of castrated wagyu -- known as marbled
beef -- will be set at 1,370 yen per kilo for 1987/88 against
1,400 now, and the ceiling at 1,780 yen against 1,820.
    The standard price of other beef, mainly produced from
dairy steers, is set at 1,020 yen against 1,090 and the ceiling
at 1,325 against 1,420.
    Ministry officials said the semi-government Livestock
Industry Promotion Corp (LIPC) conducts buffer stock operations
to help keep wholesale beef prices within the intervention
price zone.
    The LIPC is allowed to import most beef, with the amount
set by the government under a quota system. When wholesale
prices go above the ceiling, the LIPC releases its beef stocks,
both domestic and imported, and buys locally produced beef when
prices are below.
    But the LIPC has often been criticised for releasing beef
stocks when the prices are higher than the ceiling.
    Phillip Seng, Asian Director of the U.S. Meat Export
Federation, told Reuters the two pct cut in prices is a step
toward closing the gap with European Community prices, about
half those in Japan.
    But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S.
Meat exporters because of Japan's rigid and complicated
distribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.
    The Housewives Association official said retail beef prices
are high mainly because of distribution problems and high
production costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.
    American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C.
Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the Japan
Times beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound in
the U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.
    But Seng said the cut will not benefit consumers or U.S.
Meat exporters because of Japan's rigid and complicated
distribution system and strict supply control by the LIPC.
    The Housewives Association official said retail beef prices
are high mainly because of distribution problems and high
production costs, as well as poor operations by the LIPC.
    American meat packers see Japan as a promising market. F.C.
Beatty, of U.S. Packer John Morrell and Co, told the Japan
Times beef cuts, which sell for 1.20 to 3.00 dlrs a pound in
the U.S., Are sold at 15 to 30 dlrs in Japan.
    But industry sources said it is unclear how much demand
will pick up if retail beef prices drop following any sharp
reduction in intervention prices.
    U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard Lyng said this week he
will ask Japan to remove all beef import restrictions when he
visits here next month.
    In 1984, Japan decided to increase its beef import quota by
9,000 tonnes a year until March 31, 1988.
    In 1987/88, the quota will rise to 177,000 tonnes from
168,000 in 1986/87, ministry officials said, adding Japan wants
to keep self-sufficiency in beef at around 70 pct.
 REUTER
</BODY>
