<BODY DOCID=11519>
U.S. Agriculture Undersecretary
Daniel Amstutz said he was "totally sympathetic" with U.S. wood
producers' desire to have their exports eligible for government
credit guarantees.
    But he told the Senate Appropriations Agriculture
subcommittee that including wood products in the department's
short- or intermediate-term export guarantee programs would
conflict with U.S. multilateral trade obligations.
    Currently, U.S. wood products are not eligible for
government export credit guarantee because they are considered
"manufactured products," Amstutz said.
    He said USDA had devoted an "enormous amount" of time to
considering making wood products eligible for the guarantees
and that Congress was considering a measure to do so.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12943>
The U.S. Agriculture Department said
an announcement by the department yesterday concerning 15.0 mln
dlrs in additional credit guarantees for exports of U.S.
commodities to Turkey contained two inaccuracies.
    First, the USDA said its announcement should not have said
that plywood was excluded from the additional three mln dlrs in
GSM-102 credit guarantees for lumber.
    The original announcement said the guarantees included
three mln dlrs for lumber, except plywood.
    Melvin Sims, USDA general sales manager, told Reuters he
did not anticipate any plywood would be included in the sales,
but that "it's possible it would be."
    Plywood in the past has not been eligible for GSM-102
credit guarantees because it is considered by some to be a
manufactured product. Members states of the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development have pledged not to offer
concessional credits on manufactured products, Sims said.
    However, the Reagan administration is considering whether
to allow plywood sales to be covered by the credit guarantee
program, Sims said.
    Second, the USDA announcement said 6.0 mln dlrs of a
previously announced 6.0-mln dlr line for tallow under GSM-102
was available for both public and private sector importers.
    In fact, the line of credit guarantees for tallow is
available only for public sector importers, Walter Stern,
Foreign Agricultural Service Turkey analyst, said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12948>
The Reagan administration is debating
whether to provide government credit guarantees for the export
of plywood, a U.S. Agriculture Department official said.
    As a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development, OECD, the United States has agreed not to
provide any concessional credits on the export of manufactured
products.
    However, USDA General Sales Manager Melvin Sims told
Reuters the administration is considering allowing USDA to
provide its first export credit guarantees for plywood on the
grounds it is not a manufactured product.
    Sims said it was clear that wood products such as
furniture, tables and window frames would be considered
manufactured goods and therefore ineligible for export credit
guarantees. However, the case of plywood was less clear.
    "As long as it's a basic material, we consider it still just
a processed version of the basic agricultural commodity," Sims
said in a telephone interview.
    Earlier today, USDA said that plywood was eligible under an
export credit guarantee offer for Turkey announced yesterday.
In its original announcement yesterday, USDA had said the offer
included three mln dlrs for the export of lumber, excluding
plywood. However, Sims said he did not expect any plywood
exports to be including under the lumber guarantee offer.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2793>
The Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME)
board of governors announced today the options on Random Length
lumber futures will begin trading on May 29.
    The contract received Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC) approval on January 21 after being submitted for review
last October 13.
    Initially, only January, March and May delivery months will
be listed for trading. The size of the underlying futures
contract is 130,000 board feet. Regular trading hours for the
contract will be from 0900 to 1305 Central Time. However, on
the first day of trading the market will open at 1000.
    On March 4 the CME board amended the contract to eliminate
Christmas Eve expirations for the January option. This
amendment has been submited to the CFTC, the CME said.
 reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3942>
A Portland-based wood
products company has signed a 13 mln dlr contract with the
Iraqi government to supply finished softwood lumber to Iraq,
Edward Niedermeyer, president of Niedermeyer-Martin Co said
yesterday.
    Niedermeyer told the House Foreign Affairs sub-committee on
International Economic Policy and Trade in Washington that the
sales agreement contains an option that could make lumber
exported worth more than 20 mln dlrs.
    The delivery of about 8.0 mln dlrs worth of plywood, in
addition to lumber, hinges on whether the U.S. Department of
Agriculture will interpret plywood as an agricultural commodity
under the credit guarantee program, he said.
    Niedermeyer said the government export credit guarantee
program (GSM-102) administered by the USDA was the key to
opening the Iraqi market which up to now had been captured by
Scandinavian lumber producers.
    "This is the first time we have been able to sell wood
products in Iraq, he said. Without the USDA program it would
not have been possible. We hope this will lead to a long term
export market for U.S. lumber products."
    He said the contract calls for supplying 21 mln board feet
to 30 mln board feet of softwood lumber for housing,
construction and furniture manufacturing. He estimated the
profit potential for his company on the sale at five to six
pct.
    Niedermeyer spent two weeks in Baghdad negotiating the sale
late last month and early March. He is a member of the United
States-Iraq Business Forum, a non-profit group designed to
promote commerce with Iraq.
    The forum members include Westinghouse and General
Electric, but Niedermeyer's company is the only wood products
firm on the membership roster.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5115>
The Commerce Department said that
all Canadian firms had begun to pay an agreed to 15 pct
surcharge on softwood shipped to U.S. markets.
    It made the statement after talks with Canadian officials
about press reports and speculation in Canada that some
exporters were not paying the charge.
    Canada and the United States agreed last December to the 15
pct charge, ending a lengthy trade dispute over alleged
Canadian subsidies to Canada's softwood exporters.
    Commerce officials would not say if they found any Canadian
companies had been evading the charge, but that following the
talks they were convinced all exporters were complying with the
agreement.
    Undersecretary of Commerce Bruce Smart said "We are
gratified to learn that companies in Canada have begun paying
the export charge on lumber."
    He added the agreement was important to the health of the
U.S. lumber industry and he intended to see that it was fully
carried out.
 reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5132>
The Commerce Department said all
Canadian firms have begun to pay an agreed 15 pct surcharge on
softwood shipped to U.S. markets.
    It made the statement after talks with Canadian officials
about rumors in Canada that some exporters were not paying the
charge.
    Canada and the U.S. agreed last December to the 15 pct
charge, ending a lengthy trade dispute over alleged Canadian
subsidies to Canada's softwood exporters.
    Commerce officials declined to say if any Canadian
companies had been evading the charge, but said following the
talks they were convinced all exporters were complying with the
agreement.
    Undersecretary of Commerce Bruce Smart said "We are
gratified to learn that companies in Canada have begun paying
the export charge on lumber."
    He added the agreement was important to the health of the
U.S. lumber industry and he intended to see that it was fully
carried out.
 reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7318>
Champion International Corp, based in
Stamford, Conn., said it will expand its mill in Hinton,
Alberta, at a cost of about 285 mln Canadian dlrs.
    The expansion will double the facility's pulping operation
to 424,000 short tons per year. The mill produces softwood
kraft pulp which is sold to other Champion facilities and on
the open market.
    Champion said it estimates the project will be completed by
the end of 1989.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7566>
The death of the world's tropical rain
forests could trigger a new debt crisis and social and
biological disasters, scientists and ecologists involved with
the International Tropical Timber Organisation (ITTO) said.
    At stake is the ability of developing nations, including
Brazil, Mexico and the Philippines, to service their debts and
the loss of trade worth hundreds of billions of dollars in
important sectors such as agriculture and pharmaceuticals, they
said.
    The experts, gathering ahead of an ITTO meeting of
consumers and producers near Tokyo next week, said the problem
is already acute.
    The Philippines offers a textbook case of the economic
dangers. "For many third world nations, the loss of the forest
is not just a loss of resources," said Delfin Ganapin, a
Philippine government consultant on environmental impact.
    "In the 1960s we had 16 mln hectares of commercial forest,
now we have one mln. We have only around 10 years of profitable
logging left. With a 26 billion dlr debt, the loss of logging
foreign exchange earnings is serious," he said.
    About 14 mln Philippine people depend on upland areas that
are now denuded and farmers cannot grow crops.
    Government security advisers say that as a direct result,
the most likely source of revolution in the Philippines is in
the upland areas, said Ganapin.
    Replanting is uneconomic and replanted tropical hardwoods
have less than a 50 pct chance of survival. There is no known
way to reproduce the wood, or the millions of species within.
    "No replanting programme has been successful," said Almy
Hafild from the Indonesian Network for Forest Conservation.
    Ganapin said three billion dlrs would be needed in the next
two years alone to save five mln hectares of critically denuded
land in the Philippines.
    The experts say that without a major initiative from the
development banks, the vicious circle will continue with
countries cutting more forest to help service short-term debts
at the cost of long-term insolvency.
    Yet timber, a five billion dlr a year industry, is not
necessarily the most direct economic product of the forests,
and nations must be educated in how best to "farm" them, said
Peter Kramer, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) conservation director.
    There is a four billion dlr annual global trade in the end
products of rattan, and Brazil nuts earn Brazil 16 mln dlrs a
year, he said.
    U.S. Pharmacologist Norman Farnsworth has calculated that
25 pct of all U.S. Prescriptions owe their active ingredients
to higher plants growing in the forests.
    Deforestation would wipe out the chance of further
discoveries and force major corporations to research, develop
and produce man-made substitutes, at a cost which scientists
say is incalculable.
    By the year 2000, only 10 developing nations will still be
exporting timber, from 33 currently, and their export earnings
will drop from a 1980 peak of 6.8 billion dlrs to less than two
billion, a World Bank and U.N. Sponsored survey said.
    Of the 20.3 billion dlrs advanced by the World Bank,
Inter-American, African and Asian Development Banks in 1980-84,
only 100 mln dlrs went to forestry projects, it said.
    WWF statistics show half of the world's tropical forests
have vanished since the 1940s. Of 2,000 mln hectares remaining,
up to 16 mln are destroyed each year by destructive logging
practises and by local farmers.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8422>
Timber Realization Co said it has
agreed to sell its remaining 50,000 acres of timberland
property in Mississippi for about 11.3 mln dlrs in cash.
    Timber Realization, a limited partnership formed to dispose
of timberlands and related properties transferred to it by the
&lt;Masonite Corp>, said that when this sale is completed the
partnership will have received about 15.2 mln dlrs in cash and
notes from the sale of its properties since December 23, 1986.
    The partnership said it will terminate before August 3,
1987.
    Prior to that date, the partnership said it expects to form
a liquidating trust to provide for unresolved claims and
liablities.
    Timber Realization said the amount retained in that trust
will depend on its experience in resolving open items up to the
termination date, but it added it expects to retain a
substantial amount in the trust.
    The partnership said it anticipates making a cash
distribution of an as yet undetermined amount to unitholders at
or before the liquidation trust's funding date.
   
 Reuter
</BODY>
