<BODY DOCID=1493>
The Dow Chemical Co said its
Engineering Thermoplastics Department will increase the selling
prices of standard grades of MAGNUM ABS resins by three cts per
pound.
    It also announced an increase of five cts per pound for
performance grades of the resins.
    Both increases are effective April 1, 1987.

 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10581>
Henley Group Inc's M.W. Kellogg Co unit
said it was selected by &lt;Chinese Petroleum Corp> to design,
engineer and build a ethylene plant at Chinese
Petroleum's Kaohsiung refinery in Taiwan.
    Terms of the contract were not disclosed, but Kellogg said
the total cost of the plant will be 300 mln dlrs.
    Kellogg said engineering of the plant, which will have a
capacity of 400,000 tonnes a year, is already underway and
construction will begin in 1988.
    The plant will go into operation in 1990, Kellogg said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10886>
Dow Chemical Co said it
increased prices by nine cts a pound (solids) for
styrene-butadiene latex and plastic pigments, effective May
One. Dow did not release the percentage increase.
    It said the increase will affect the floor covering
markets, paper, paperboard and specialty markets.
    It said the increase is in addition to a previously
announced seven cts a pound (solids) increase, effective March
One.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11625>
Dow Chemical Co's Thermoplastic
Resin Department said it is amending a recent price increase
for Magnum ABS (A) resins announced March 3 for an effective
date of April 1.
    Dow said that effective April 15 the selling prices for
most grades of Magnum ABS resins for the injection molding,
custom sheet and automotive markets will rise six cts a pound,
instead of the three cts a pound announced previously.
    Dow also said that the selling prices for performance
grades of the resins to the same markets will increase eight
cts a pound, rather than five cts as announced before.
    The company said that Magnum ABS resins for pipe extension
will increase three cts a pound, effective April 9, as
previously reported.
    Dow said it altered the increase to reflect changes in the
industry over the past month.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12404>
An international protocol to severely
limit the use of industrial chemicals which are believed to
damage the earth's protective ozone layer could be signed this
year, officials and scientists here said.
    "By the end of this year, we should have an international
protocol in place we can all be proud of," U.S. Environmental
protection agency officer Bill Long told reporters.
    The chemicals are chiefly chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) which
are used in refrigeration and making foam plastics, solvents
and aerosols. The earth's upper ozone layer absorbs most of the
harmful ultraviolet rays from the sun.
    The officials and scientists were meeting in Tokyo, ahead
of an international conference on the problem later this month
in either Vienna, or Geneva, Long said.
    Robert Watson, a program manager for atmospheric problems
at the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration said
a protocol should demand an initial freeze on the use of CFCs
by industry. This should be followed by a gradual reduction in
CFC volume until no CFC gases are released into the air, he
said. The U.S. Has already banned use of use CFCs in aerosols
and Japan has asked for voluntary restraint, but both still use
CFCs in industrial processes.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12439>
Zimbabwe's Grain Marketing Board has
banned the packing of oilseeds in locally-made polypropylene
bags and will supply jute bags instead, board officials said.
    It said the quality of oilseeds such as soybeans,
groundnuts and sunflower seed packed in polypropylene bags
deteriorated after two weeks.
    Zimbabwe began producing 10 mln polypropylene grain bags
this year to replace jute bags imported mainly from Bangladesh.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12770>
South Korea will pay about 20 pct more for
ethylene imported from Japan in the second quarter of the year
because increased plastic production in both countries has
boosted demand and tightened supplies, chemical industry
sources said.
    South Korea has agreed to pay Japanese trading houses just
over 400 dlrs C and F per tonne, up from an average of 350 dlrs
in the first quarter and throughout 1986, they said.
    South Korean demand for imported ethylene this month has
risen to 17,000 tonnes from 10,000 last month, and the country
may face difficulties covering the extra volume, they said.
    &lt;Korea Petrochemical Industries Corp>, a producer of high
density polyethylene (HDPE) and polypropylene, will more than
double its ethylene requirements to 9,000 tonnes a month from
4,000 when it completes a plant expansion at the end of this
month, the sources said.
    &lt;Honan Ethylene Corp's> import requirements have risen to
8,000 tonnes a month from 6,000 tonnes last year to meet strong
demand from &lt;Honan Petrochemical Co>, which makes HDPE and
ethylene glycol, and &lt;Hangyang Chemical>, which produces
low-density polyethylene and vinyl chloride monomer, they said.
    But Japan's ethylene plants are already operating at almost
full capacity of 4.5 mln tonnes a year just to fulfill domestic
demand, the sources said.
    "And even if Japan had the additional ethylene, there is a
logistical problem of finding extra appropriate-sized vessels
to ship it to Korea," said one trading house source.
    Japanese trading companies are looking to alternative
sources to supply South Korea's needs, including Saudi Arabia,
Qatar and Mexico, they said.
    But long-haul voyages are expensive as the product has to
be shipped at a temperature of minus 103 degrees centigrade to
keep it in a liquid form, they said.
    Japan has no plans to invest further in the ethylene
industry in order to cope with the additional demand, despite
rising prices, trading house sources said.
    South Korea has two projects in hand which will increase
its ethylene production capacity by 500,000 tonnes a year by
the end of 1989, so the strong demand surge for imports is only
a medium-term trend, they said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=14689>
Italy's state-owned Ente Nazionale
Idrocarburi (ENI) will invest 197 mln dlrs in two joint
ventures in coal and petrochemicals with Petroleos de
Venezuela, S.A, ENI president Franco Reviglio said.
    Speaking at a news conference, Reviglio said the two
projects will eventually bring in some 300 mln dlrs annually in
foreign exchange to Venezuela and help diversify the country's
export base. "Joint ventures are the principal instrument for
allowing the resources of the industrialized countries to be
channeled to the developing world so as to lead future growth
for both," Reviglio said.
    ENI's subsidiary Ecofuel will join Pequiven, the
petrochemical subsidiary of PDVSA in building a 160 mln dlr
plant to produce mtbe, a gasoline additive used to increase
octane levels.
    The 500,000 mt per year plant will be constructed at Jose
in eastern Venezuela, and fed by butane produced at PDVSA's
eastern cryogenic complex. ENI owns 48 pct of the joint venture
company, Super Octanos, C.A., while Pequiven has 49 pct, with
the remaining three pct to be sold to private investors.
    Production is set to begin in third quarter 1989. Ecofuel
officials said the plant is modeled after one in Saudi Arabia.
    Another ENI subsidiary, Agip Carbone, will sign a letter of
intent in Caracas tomorrow to enter a partnership with PDVSA to
mine the coal deposits at guasare in western zulia state, he
said.
    Feasibility studies are still being done on the carbozulia
project, with a definitive accord slated for august, he added.
    Agip carbone and atlantic richfield coal, an arco
subsidiary have formed a consortium which will own 48 pct of
the carbozulia project, whose total cost is estimated at 500
mln dlrs, the company said. Agip carbone will invest 24 pct, or
120 mln dlrs, in the project, it said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2371>
Novacor Inc, a unit of &lt;Nova,
an Alberta Corp>, said it would raise prices for U.S. customers
by five cts a pound on linear low-density and low-density
polyethylene, effective April 1.
    The company did not immediately disclose the actual new
prices.
    A Novacor official later said in reply to an inquiry that
the new prices, effective April 1, would range from 31 U.S. cts
a pound to about 38 cts.
    The official said the increase reflected improved market
conditions, although he noted the new prices would still be
lower than those of three years ago.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3120>
PPG Industries Inc said a group of
investors led by &lt;Sterling Group> of Houston said it has agreed
to acquire PPG's ethylene products business, including its
inteest in an ethylene glycols joint venture with du Pont Co
&lt;DD> in Beaumont, Texas, for undisclosed terms.
    The company said completion is expected in the second
quarter.
    It said the business had sales of over 50 mln dlrs in 1986.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4054>
&lt;Tonen Sekiyukagaku KK> and &lt;Exxon
Chemical Co>, a petrochemical division of Exxon Corp &lt;XON>,
said they agreed to accelerate a study to set up an
equally-owned joint venture to make waterwhite resin in Japan.
    Details of the venture, to be based on Exxon Chemical
technology, will be set later, the companies said.
    Waterwhite resins are widely used in adhesive applications
for baby nappies, medical tapes, and other bonding agents.
    Tonen is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Toa Nenryo Kogyo KK
&lt;TNEN.T> which is owned 25 pct by Exxon Corp.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5150>
Yugoslavia's top oil and natural gas
producer &lt;Ina-Naftaplin> has started to implement a cooperation
contract signed last year with the French petrochemical concern
&lt;Petro Chemie>, the official Tanjug news agency said.
    Under the deal Petro Chemie supplies oil to Ina refineries
in Sisak and Rijeka and ships parts to 12 Yugoslav firms in the
petrochemical, chemical, textile and plastics industries. The
Yugoslav firms, in turn, will export oil products to France.
    Tanjug said this year's exchange will value 530 mln dlrs.
    Ina signed a similar deal with West Germany's Hoechst AG
&lt;HFAG.F> two years ago.
    Ina also has joint ventures and co-production projects,
involving Yugoslavia's other main producer &lt;Naftagas> of Novi
Sad, with partners in Angola, Algeria and Tunisia, exploring
for and exploiting oil and natural gas.
    An estimated 300,000 tonnes of oil will thus be obtained
from fields in Angola over the next 15 years, Tanjug said.
    Ina accounts for some 75 pct of Yugoslavia's total oil
production, which amounts to 4.2 mln tonnes a year.
    Ina earned more than 154 mln dlrs from exports of goods and
services to 39 countries last year and ranks among Yugoslavia's
leading export enterprises.
    In a separate statement issued through Tanjug, Ina said it
has successfully completed the first drill at the depth of over
3,000 meters in the Bay of Baes, in Tunisia. Ina is jointly
prospecting with the U.S. Firm Conoco for oil and gas there.
    Work on a second drill, below 4,000 meters, would start
soon in the Bay of Gabes, the statement said. Ina would invest
about 8.5 mln dlrs in prospecting in the Gabes area.
    Conoco, which has completed geological prospecting for the
Tunisian government, has transferred one third of its option
rights in the region to Ina, it said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5421>
Hoechst AG's &lt;HFAG.F> U.S. unit,
Hoechst Celanese Corp, said it has begun projects that will
cost more than 150 mln dlrs.
    The unit was formed last month when Hoechst completed the
acquisition of Celanese for 2.84 billion dlrs.
    The company said it will expand its Sanwet super absorbent
polymers unit and its acrylic acid facility. It also said it
plans an acetaminophen production plant at Bishop, Texas.

 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6561>
Aristech Chemical Corp said it plans
to increase production capacity for three of its key product
lines: polypropylene, bisphenol-A and phenol.
    Aristech said the polypropylene expansion involves a major
modernization of its Neal, W. Va., polypropylene plant.
    When completed, Aristech said, the project would increase
the plant's annual production to 264 mln pounds from 165 mln
pounds now.
    Aristech said the expansion will increase the company's
total polypropylene, a thermoplastic resin, capacity to 600 mln
pounds annually from 515 mln pounds now.
    Aristech also said it will expand bisphenol-A and phenol
production at its Haverhill, Ohio plant.
    It said the project will raise its bisphenol-A, which is
used to make polycarbonate and epoxy reins, capacity to 192 mln
pounds per year from 165 mln pounds now.
    Aristech added that phenol production will increase to 610
mln pounds per year from 585 mln pounds a year now.
    Phenol is used to make phenolic resins and adhesives for
engineering plastics, the company said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7452>
Reichhold Chemicals Inc said its
emulsion polymers division increased by nine cts per dry pound
the prices of all styrene-butadiene and polystyrene latexes,
effective May 1.
    It said the increase is in addition to recently announced
increases and applies to carpet, paper, nonwovens, textiles,
adhesives and other specialty end uses.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8088>
French Foreign Minister Jean-Bernard
Raimond predicted in a published interview a successful end to
negotiations to admit Gulf petrochemical exports into the
European Community (EC).
    Negotiations have been under way between the Community and
the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) for three years.
    Raimond, due here tomorrow from Oman for his first official
visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE), told the semi-official
daily Al-Ittihad he was confident a solution would soon be
reached.
    "I am confident that problems between the two big partners,
the GCC and the EC, will find a solution. I will work to reach
that solution," he said in the interview conducted in Paris.
    An EC decision to impose tariffs on Gulf petrochemical
exports over a set quota has strained trade relations between
the two sides.
    GCC members Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, the UAE
and Oman are threatening to impose heavy customs duties on
European exports to the Gulf if no solution is reached.
    Raimond said negotiations between the two groups took a
long time because there were 20 countries involved. But added:
"Time is now ripe and all circumstances are appropriate for
making crucial progress."
    Referring to the Iran-Iraq war, he said efforts should
continue to find a solution despite prevailing difficulties.
    He said France was continuing negotiations with Iran. Some
problems were solved as a result of the contacts while others
remained unresolved. He gave no details but said: "France wishes
to have normal relations with Iran."
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8971>
Imperial Oil Ltd, 70 pct owned by Exxon
Corp &lt;XON>, will focus on maintaining its financial strength
and improving near-term earnings performance through operating
expense reductions and selective capital spending, the company
said in the annual report.
    Imperial Oil said it expects to spend about 750 mln dlrs on
capital and exploration expenditures in 1987, compared to 648
mln dlrs in 1986 and 1.16 billion dlrs in 1985.
    Imperial previously reported 1986 operating net profit fell
to 440 mln dlrs or 2.69 dlrs share from 694 mln dlrs or 4.27
dlrs share in the prior year.
    Imperial Oil said the attention to earnings results from
the desire to pursue longer term growth opportunities should
the investment climate improve and the belief that low or
volatile crude oil prices could continue during the next
several years.
    The company also said actions initiated during 1986 to
restructure and improve efficiency should continue to show
benefits in 1987.
    During 1986, the company cut operating, administrative and
marketing expenses by 91 mln dlrs and reduced the number of
workers by 16 pct to 12,500.
    Imperial chairman Arden Haynes said in the annual report
that it is too early to determine whether the recent upward
movement in international oil prices will be sustained.
    "It is still a time for prudence and caution, and the
company's actions will continue to be based on the fundamentals
of market supply and demand," he said.
    Haynes said prospects for the company's petroleum products
division are more promising than before, but are still
uncertain. Imperial's 1986 petroleum earnings rose to 174 mln
dlrs from 102 mln dlrs in 1985.
    Haynes said more satisfactory product margins on its
petroleum products could result if demand recovers as it has in
the United States.
    The company's chemicals business outlook is mixed, Haynes
said. Prospects for growth in petrochemical sales is good as
long as economic growth continues, but future large grain
surpluses could dampen fertilizer demand and maintain pressure
on prices.
    Imperial's chemical business earned 17 mln dlrs in 1986,
compared to three mln dlrs in 1985.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9032>
Charter Co, the huge
petrochemical concern in bankruptcy proceedings stemming from
hundreds of dioxin-related claims, said it and all of its
subsidiaries, except the Independent Petrochemical Corp, will
complete their reorganization on March 31.
    It said that on that date, it will deposit with an escrow
agent 288.8 mln dlrs in cash, 66.7 mln dlrs in notes and 31 mln
shares of its common for distribution.
    Company officials were not immediately available for
comment.
    As previously reported, Charter settled dioxin-related
claims for about 1,200 individuals and the state of Missouri,
resolving claims against it and all subsidiaries except
Independent Petrochemical.
    Charter said some of the settlements remain subject to
appeals and final court approvals and resolve claims against
charter and its subsidiaries except Independent Petrochemical.
    It said about 500 individual claims against it and certain
of its units remain pending as disputed claims in bankruptcy
court. It said about 300 of these claims have been filed since
confirmation of the joint plan of reorganization.
    Charter said its two creditors, an equity committee in its
bankruptcy proceedings and &lt;American Financial Corp>, which
will own 50.5 pct of its common after the reorganization, have
waived the requirement that Charter resolve all dioxin-related
claims against it prior to completing its reorganization.
    That requirement excludes claims against Independent
Petrochemical. Charter also said a plan for liquidation of
Independent has been approved by the bankruptcy court and will
be completed after March 31.
    Earlier, Charter reported net income for the year of 153.2
mln dlrs, which included a gain of 28.5 mln dlrs for
discontinued operations and 114.8 mln dlrs for the settlement
of claims in its reorganization proceedings.
    In 1985, it reported earnings of 1,274,000 dlrs, which
included a loss of 36.3 mln dlrs for discontinued operations
and 29.4 mln dlrs for extraordinary items.
    For the fourth quarter, it reported earnings of 118.8 mln
dlrs, including a gain of 28.6 mln dlrs for discontinued
operations and 90.5 mln dlrs mainly for claims settlements. In
the year-ago period, Charter reported a loss of 13 mln dlrs.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9077>
Trinidad and Tobago is
finalizing arrangements with Union Carbide &lt;UK> of the United
States and Snamprogetti of Italy for the construction of a
1,500 tonnes per day methanol plant, Energy Minister Kelvin
Ramnath said.
    Ramnath said the ministry is now holding talks with Union
Carbide on the price of natural gas to be used in the plant,
which will be constructed near the Trinidad and Tobago oil
company (Trintoc) refinery at Point Fortin on the west coast.
    Snamprogetti built the first methanol refinery on trinidad
five years ago.
    Trintoc is likely to put up land, refinery plant and
machinery as equity. If negotiations go smoothly, ramnath said,
construction could begin by next january.
    The government of prime minister A.N.R. Robinson is hoping
to lue new investors to the twin-island state's petrochemical
industry, in order to make use of new findings of natural gas.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9204>
Ciba-Geigy AG &lt;CIGZ.Z> said it would
establish a joint venture with Phillips Petroleum Co. In Europe
to manufacture a high performance engineering thermoplastic.
    Initially, the Swiss chemicals firm will manufacture
polyphenylene sulfide compounds using resins from Phillips.
    The two firms will later set up a joint venture to produce
the polyphenylene resins and compounds, which will be marketed
independently under their respective trademarks. A Ciba-Geigy
spokesman declined to say how much the venture would cost.
    Polyphenylene sulfide is widely used in the electronic,
automotive, and petroleum fields.
 REUTER
</BODY>
