<BODY DOCID=7043>
The financial rand, widely viewed
as a direct reflection of foreign investor confidence in South
Africa, appears headed above 30 U.S. Cents, dealers and bank
economists said.
    The currency has risen about 25 pct in the past three
months to its current rate of 29.50 cents, due partly to signs
of a possible power shift with the appearance of a number of
independent candidates in the whites-only election on May 6,
they added.
    It has risen about two cents this week alone.
    "Another factor is that banks in London, where the main
market is based, are going long in the currency because of a
general feeling that it will rise in the future," one economist
said.
    Dealers described 30 cents as a psychological barrier that
was expected to be broken soon after a brief consolidation
phase from recent gains.
    After reaching 30 cents, "There is a chance of appreciation
to 32 cents in the next several weeks," one dealer said.
    There was a widespread feeling that both the commercial
rand, holding stable at 48 cents, and the financial rand were
staying firm, banking sources said.
    A Barclays National Bank executive who asked not to be
identified said: "The rise of the independents appears to be
indicative of a potential shift of power in the National Party
and has created a favourable sentiment overseas."
    One dealer said growing business and investor interest from
West Germany and Switzerland were behind the financial rand's
rise.
    Economists said foreigners also were being attracted by
South Africa's long-term government bonds and "semi-gilts" or
securities in partly government-owned firms, many with yields
as high as 30 pct. They could be purchased with financial rands
with interest paid in commercial rands.
    "This has had a definite influence on the financial form of
the rand," a dealer said, adding that at present demand is
slightly in excess of supply.
    The financial rand was reintroduced in September 1985 to
help end capital flight from South Africa during a period of
severe political unrest in the country.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9336>
South Africa's new foreign debt
agreement sparked a rally in local financial markets, but
bankers and economists said the pact removes only one source of
anxiety from a still depressed economy.
    "We have not gone from 'no confidence' to 'full confidence'
yet," commented one banker, who saw the agreement as having
marginal influence on fundamental economic problems.
    Money market analysts cited the debt renegotiation as the
main impetus behind increases today in both the commercial and
financial rand.
    The commercial rand, used for current account transactions,
rose 0.5 cts to 49 U.S. Cts while the financial rand jumped
nearly two cts to 33 U.S. Cts.
    All equity and fixed investment flows of foreigners take
place through the financial rand, which is considered the main
barometer of South Africa's attractiveness to overseas
investors.
    Analysts predicted the debt arrangement plus further gains
in the gold price could push the commercial rand over 50 U.S.
Cts and the financial rand to 35 cents in the next few weeks.
    They said the financial rand in particular was being driven
by a tentative provision in the new debt agreement that could
favorably affect the currency.
    Foreign creditors may get permission to convert loan
balances and short-term claims into equity investments in South
Africa.
    Finance Minister Barend du Plessis said the Reserve Bank
was "investigating the implications of such conversions in light
of terms and restrictions of the financial rand system."
    Du Plessis in disclosing the new agreement last night said
the recent sharp rise in the financial rand was an example that
"some foreign investors are again taking a more realistic view
of South Africa."
    Terms of the debt agreement call for South Africa to repay
1.42 billion dlrs of 13 billion dlrs of frozen debt over the
next three years. The agreement extends a standstill
arrangement, expiring June 30, that has been in place since
August, 1985.
    Bankers said the repayment amounts essentially confirmed
their private estimates and could be comfortably met by the
monetary authorities.
    "They (creditors) asked for the maximum amount and we
offered the minimum," said one banking source, reacting to
reports from London that creditors were hoping for larger
repayments.
    Reserve Bank governor Gerhard de Kock said South Africa
should have "no difficulty whatsoever" with the terms.
    Economists said the debt agreement would have no
significant impact on economic problems continuing to face
South Africa including high rates of inflation and
unemployment, labour unrest and political uncertainty.
    Johannesburg Stock Exchange president Tony Norton, speaking
yesterday before the debt agreement, said the economy was "in
bad shape" and there was "an awful lot of talk but little action"
to cure serious problems.
 REUTER
</BODY>
