<BODY DOCID=444>
Turkish retail prices rose 2.7 pct in
February after 2.9 pct in January and 1.7 pct in February 1986,
the State Statistics Institute said.
    Prices in the year to February rose 31.6 pct, compared with
30.3 pct in the year to January and 38.8 pct in the 12 months
to February 1986.
    The index (base 1978/79), covering 14 towns and five
regions, was 1,886.8 in February, 1,837.2 in January and
1,434.0 in February 1986.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2269>
U.S. retailers posted stronger than
expected sales in February, but not enough to prompt analysts
to change their expectations of sluggish sales growth for the
first half of 1987.
     "My feeling is that it (February) borrowed some of the
business we normally see later in the quarter and the real
strength of general merchandise sales will be in the second
half of 1987," said Bear Stearns and Co analyst Monroe
Greenstein.
    "I don't think March will be as strong because Easter falls
in April this year," said Morgan Stanley analyst Walter Loeb.
   Analysts generally average the sales results of March and
April to account for the variation of Easter's occurrence.
    Analyst Edward Johnson of Johnson Redbook Associates said
sales for February rose between six and 6.5 pct, compared to a
3.6 pct increase last year.
     Analysts noted that February is considered a small,
transitory month between winter and spring.
    In addition, sales comparisons were boosted by an
especially soft February last year which was adversely affected
by severe weather.
    Apparel sales outshone other product groups in sales,
according to retailers and analysts.
    "February's strong sales reflected a lot of fresh
merchandise on the shelves and higher consumer income due to
tax reductions," said Greenstein of Bear Stearns.
    Analysts expect apparel sales to remain good as sales of
durable and houseware items grow softer due to the continuing
high levels of consumer debt.
     May Department Stores Co &lt;MAY> and K Mart Corp &lt;KM> were
among the strong performers, posting comparable store sales
gains of 9.4 pct and 8.2 pct, respectively. May had an overall
sales gain of 15.0 pct and K Mart had a 13.1 pct sales gain 
last month.
    "Favorable consumer response to our merchandise programs
continued to positively impact our sales comparisons. IN
addition to the strong contribution by K Mart stores, all our
specialty retailing companies had excellent February sales,"
said K Mart chairman Bernard Fauber.
    Sears Roebuck and Co &lt;S> posted a 4.9 pct increase.
"Domestic sales were led by better than average increases in
apparel, home fashions and hardware and especially strong
catalog sales," said Sears chairman Edward Brennan.
    Analysts were a little disappointed by J.C. Penney Co Inc
&lt;JCP> which started out with especially strong sales early in
the month. Penney posted a 5.5 pct increase on a comparitive
store basis and a 5.3 pct gain in overall sales.
    Penney chairman William Howell said, "store sales were
strongest during the early part of the month, while catalog
demand was consistently strong throughout the period.
    Store sales activity varied throughout the country, ranging
from good in the East to weak in the depressed southwest.
    Analysts also said gross profit margins were high as
retailers were not overly promotional due to leaner inventories
than a year ago.
    "February is not a big month seasonally but these numbers
suggest a fairly good trend for consumer spending," said Drexel
Burnham Lambert analyst Jeff Edelman.
    FEBRUARY SALES FOR MAJOR U.S. RETAILERS
    STORE          PCT      1987       1986
 SEARS             4.9      1.8 BILL   1.8 BILL
 K MART            13.1     1.5 BILL   1.3 BILL
 WAL-MART          44.0     885 MLN    615 MLN
 JC PENNEY         5.3      780 MLN    741 MLN
 FEDERATED         9.6      720 MLN    657 MLN
 MAY               15.0     632 MLN    550 MLN
 DAYTON HUDSON     19.5     602 MLN    504 MLN
 ZAYRE             25.7     327 MLN    260 MLN
 MONTGOMERY WARD   11.1     277 MLN    249 MLN
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2531>
Retail sales in the quarter ended
December 31 fell a seasonally adjusted 13.2 pct compared with a
7.8 pct rise in the September quarter and a 1.3 pct fall a year
ago period, the Statistics Department said.
    Actual retail sales in the December quarter totalled 6.17
billion N.Z. Dlrs compared with 6.70 billion in the previous
quarter and 6.10 billion a year ago period.
    The largest decreases in the December quarter were recorded
by the same stores which recorded the highest increase in sales
in the September 1986 quarter before the introduction of a 10
pct value added goods and services tax on October 1, 1986.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=2618>
Momentum in th U.S. economy may be
picking up given solid across-the board increases in the
February U.S. employment report, economists said.
    U.S. non-farm payroll employment rose 337,000 in February,
twice what the financial markets expected. This follows a
319,000 gain in January, revised down from a previously
reported 448,000 increase.
    "Even if you look at January and February together, this is
still a much stronger report than the consensus expectation in
the market," said Allan Leslie of Discount Corporation.
    Economists stressed that gains in hours worked signal much
larger gains in February U.S. production and income than
previously forecast.
    The average work week rose 0.2 hours to 35.0 hours from
34.8 hours in January. The average manufacturing work week rose
0.3 hours to 41.2 hours, the longest factory work week since
November 1966, the Commerce Department said.
    "The gains in manufacturing employment point to a very
large increase in industrial production of between 0.5 and 0.7
pct," said Joe Carson of Chemical Bank. This compares to a 0.4
pct  gain in January U.S. industrial production.
    Peter Greenbaum of Smith Barney Harris Upham and Co Inc
noted that the average wage rate increased to 8.87 dlrs an hour
in February from 8.83 dlrs in January.
    "Combined with the increase in hours worked, this means
we'll get a pretty healthy gain in personal income vis-a-vis
the wage and salary disbursement," he said.
    Greenbaum said that February U.S. personal income should
rise at least 0.5 pct after being flat in January.
    He said the February employment gains are consistent with
his firm's first quarter U.S. real gross national product
growth forecast of 3.7 pct.
    Economists agreed that the employment data were negative
for the credit markets in that they signal a healthier economy
and no easing in the Federal Reserve's monetary policy. But
most said that the market need not fear tighter policy either.
    "This report is another reason for the Fed to not consider
easing," said Ray Stone of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc.  
  "It gives them more room to address the dollar situation," he
said. "If they had to nudge policy tighter, they could do so,
but it's most likely they'll sit and wait."
    "The data have not been uniform," Stone added. "Durable
goods were weak in January and now employment is strong."
    In January, U.S. durable goods orders dropped 7.5 pct,
followed by a 4.0 pct drop in U.S. factory goods orders. U.S.
retail sales fell 5.8 pct, and the U.S. merchandise trade gap
widened to 14.8 billion dlrs.
    "Things just aren't adding up," said Steve Slifer of Lehman
Goverment Securities Inc. "Consumer spending, capital spending,
goverment spending, and net exports data show very weak first
quarter GNP growth of one pct," he said.
    "The employment and production data point to a big
inventory build-up, but that's what we thought in the fourth
quarter and we only got 1.3 pct GNP growth."
    Manufacturing employment gained 50,000 after falling 15,000
in January. Economists estimated that 30,000 of the gain was
accounted for by striking workers in the steel and machinery
industries returning to work.
    Even so, some economists said that the manufacturing gains
have resulted from an improving trade outlook.
    Jason Benderly of Goldman, Sachs and Co noted that the U.S.
trade picture improved in the fourth quarter as net exports
grew at a 20 pct annual rate while the rate of increase in
imports fell to only six pct, and that it continues to improve
in the first quarter.
    "Not only the official statistics for the fourth quarter,
but evidence of a pick up in orders from overseas for paper
products, chemicals, high-tech goods, and capital goods show
that trade is improving," Benderley said.
    "The economy is moving between extremes," he said. "Some
reports are going to look bad and some good, but first quarter
GNP is going to grow in the middle at about three pct."
    A 287,000 gain in services employment comprised the greater
part of February's employment gain. Retail services employment
rose 129,000 in February, compared to a gain of 117,000 in
January, previously reported at 166,000.
    Construction employment rose a slim 2,000 in February. But
this follows a robust 113,000 gain in January, revised down
from a previously reported 142,000 gain.
    The U.S. civilian unemployment rate was unchanged in
February at 6.7 pct. This means the jobless rate has stayed at
6.7 pct for three consecutive months, the lowest reading since
March 1980, the Commerce Department noted.
    "The Federal Reserve has to be pleased with this report,"
Carson said. "This takes away the Fed's flexibility to ease,
but there's no reason to tighten. It's way too early for that."
      
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4005>
U.S. economic data this week could be
the key in determining whether U.S. interest rate futures break
out of a 3-1/2 month trading range, financial analysts said.
    Although market expectations are for February U.S. retail
sales Thursday and industrial production Friday to show healthy
gains, figures within or slightly below expectations would be
positive for the market, the analysts said.
    "You have to be impressed with the resiliency of bonds
right now," said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig
Sloane.
    Treasury bond futures came under pressure today which
traders linked to a persistently firm federal funds rate and a
rise in oil prices. However, when sufficient selling interest
to break below chart support in the June contract failed to
materialize, participants who had sold bond futures early
quickly covered short positions, they said.
    "Everyone is expecting strong numbers, and if they come in
as expected it won't be that bad for the market," Sloane said.
    Sloane said the consensus estimate for the non-auto sector
of retail sales is for a rise of 0.6 to 0.7 pct.
    Dean Witter analyst Karen Gibbs said a retail sales figure
below market forecasts would give a boost to debt futures, and
she put the range for the non-auto sector of retail sales at up
0.8 to 1.2 pct.
    Industrial production and the producer price index Friday
both are expected to show increases of about 0.5 pct, she
added.
    Retail sales "will tell us whether or not we will be able
to fill the gap," Gibbs said, referring to a chart gap in June
bonds between 100-26/32 and 101-3/32 created Friday. June bonds
closed at 100-4/32 today.
    Also key to debt futures direction, in addition to the
federal funds rate, is the direction of crude oil prices, said
Carroll McEntee and McGinley Futures analyst Brian Singer.
    "A higher fed funds rate and firm oil prices precluded the
market from breaking out of the trading range the last time the
market approached the top of the range," Singer said.
    In order for bonds to break above the top of the range,
which is just below 102 in the June contract, "the crude oil
rally needs to run its course and pull back a little bit,"
Singer said. "Fed funds are already easing back down toward the
six pct level."
    The recent surge in oil prices has also been a concern to
Manufacturers Hanover Futures analyst Jim Rozich, but the rally
may be nearing a top around 18.50 dlrs per barrel, he said.
    Rozich said he is looking for the June bond contract to
ease to 99-6/32 and find support.
    "I'm not quite ready to jump on the bullish bandwagon yet.
The jury is still out this week," Rozich said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4152>
U.S. retail sales rose 4.77 billion
dlrs, or 4.1 pct, in February to a seasonally adjusted 122.29
billion dlrs, the Commerce Department said.
    The increase came after a revised 7.4 pct drop in January
sales to a level of 117.52 billion dlrs. The department
previously reported January retail sales fell 5.8 pct.
    Excluding autos, retail sales in February were up 1.5 pct
after falling by a revised 0.4 pct in January.
    Department spokesmen said the major cause for the revision
downward in January sales was a weaker January auto dealer
sales figure than originally estimated.
    Auto dealer sales were 26.91 billion dlrs in February, a
14.4 pct rise from January levels. But January sales dropped by
27.7 pct from December levels to 23.52 billion dlrs, more than
the 22.4 pct fall originally reported.
    The expiration of the sales tax deduction under new tax
laws on January 1 was the main reason for the drop in January
sales, department spokesmen said.
    Sales of durable goods rose in February by 8.8 pct to 46.72
billion dlrs after dropping by 17.7 pct in January.
    Building materials rose 1.8 pct in February after falling
by 1.7 pct in January.
    Non-durable goods sales rose by 1.3 pct to 75.58 billion
dlrs in February after falling by 0.2 pct in January, the
department said.
    General merchandise stores rose 1.4 pct after increasing
sales by 1.6 pct in January, and department stores were up two
pct in February after rising 1.5 pct in January.
    Food store sales increased 0.4 pct after declining by 1.0
pct in January, while grocery store sales increased 0.3 pct in
February after falling 0.6 pct in January.
    Gasoline service station sales rose 2.0 pct in February
after a 1.9 pct January increase.
    Apparel store sales were up 0.8 pct last month after
falling 3.0 pct in January, while sales at eating and drinking
places increased 1.5 pct after rising 0.5 pct in January.
    February's retail sales were 4.4 pct above the year-ago
level of 117.09 billion dlrs, the department said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4173>
U.K. Retailers expect consumer spending
to accelerate in March after a disappointing increase in
February, according to a monthly survey by the Confederation of
British Industry (CBI).
    Fifty-nine pct of the 325 retailers questioned for the
latest Distributive Trades Survey expected sales to be higher
in March than they were in March 1986, with only six pct
expecting lower sales.
    The chairman of the Distributive Trades Survey Panel, Nigel
Whittaker, said a favourable Budget next week would further
help sales during the summer.
    Figures released earlier this week showed retail sales in
January fell 2.2 pct, mainly due to exceptionally cold weather.
    "Sales did not recover in February as much as retailers had
expected, and they are now looking for better business in
March," today's survey said.
    It reported clothing stores were the most optimistic, with
80 pct expecting sales in March to be higher than a year ago.
    Wholesalers also expected stronger sales in March, while
both retailers and wholesalers reported slower growth in import
penetration, it said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4255>
The White House welcomed the
February retail sales figures showing a 4.1 pct rise, following
a slow performance in January.
    Spokesman Marlin Fitzwater told reporters: "The February
sales growth was broad-based and good news for the economy."
    Commerce Department figures showed a larger than expected
rise following depressed levels of sales and factory orders in
January.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4290>
U.S. retail sales rose sharply in
February but many economists said the underlying consumer
spending trend remains weak.
    February retail sales jumped 4.1 pct, more than the 2.5-3.0
pct rise the financial markets had anticipated. But January's
sales were revised down to a 7.4 pct drop, from a previously
reported 5.8 pct decline.
    "The trend is toward continued spending but certainly at a
much more sluggish pace," said Don Maude of Midland Montagu
Capital Markets Inc.
    Maude averaged out the wide swings in the retail sales data
over past four months to show that the pace of consumer
spending is slowing.
    Combining the latest data with a 0.6 pct drop in November
and a 4.6 pct gain in December, the average retail sales gain
over the four months was 0.2 pct, he said, compared to to a 0.4
pct rise for year-over-year sales through February.
    "You can see a pattern developing," Maude said. "I wouldn't
be surprised to see a fall-off in March, especially since sales
probably won't be boosted by auto sales as they were in
February."
    Despite the weak underlying trend, economists were
impressed by a robust 1.5 pct gain in total sales excluding
autos in February. This compared to a revised 0.4 pct decline
in January, previously reported as a 0.1 pct decline.
    "The increase in non-auto sales was broadbased, with gains
in durable goods as well as non-durables," noted Ward McCarthy
of Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Inc. "It was a pretty healthy
report."
    He noted that building materials rose 1.8 pct in February
after falling 1.7 pct in January. General merchandise store
sales gained 1.4 pct after a 1.6 pct rise in January.
    "There are signs of life in the economy," McCarthy said.
"But it's jumping to conclusions to extrapolate this report
into the future." 
    A 0.7 pct increase in disposable personal income in January
which may be linked to the new tax laws probably helped boost
spending in February, he said.
    "A lot of people may be inadvertently under-withholding
taxes from their paychecks," he said. "When people in this
country get an increase in disposable income, the inclination
is to go out and spend it," he said.
    Economists said tomorrow's release of U.S. auto sales for
the first 10 days of March will be an important indicator of
how much this sector will add to first quarter spending.
     Auto sales accounted for the lion's share of total
February sales, rising 14.4 pct. This followed a 27.7 pct drop
in January, previously reported as a 22.4 pct fall, due largely
to the expiration of the sales tax deduction under new tax laws
January 1, the Commerce Department noted.
    Some economists argued that the because the gain in total
sales excluding autos also followed a decline in January, the
strength in the February report is less than impressive.
    "There is strength in the February data, but that's because
they were compared to low sales levels in January," said said
Beth Reiners of Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. "We don't see it as a
precursor of continued strength."
    Durable goods sales rose 8.8 pct in February, after falling
17.7 pct in January. February non-durable goods sales gained
1.3 pct, after declining 0.2 pct in January.
    Gasoline service station sales rose two pct in February,
following a 1.9 pct gain in January, but economists said higher
oil prices rather than an increased volume of gas sales
probably accounted for these gains.
    Reiners also emphasized that the trend in consumer spending
is weakening. Total retail sales on average were 123 billion
dlrs in the fourth quarter of 1986, she said. In January, they
fell to a seasonally adjusted 117.52 bilion dlrs, and in
February rose to 122.29 billion dlrs.
    "On average, it looks like they'll total 120 to 121 mln
dlrs in the first quartrer," she said. "We don't look at this
as indication that the economy is barrelling along."
    "The number is not really that problematic for those of us
who are constructive on the bond market," agreed Elliot Platt
of Donaldsen Lufkin and Jenrette Securities Corp.
    Platt does not foresee potential for tighter monetary
policy on the basis of the latest retail sales report.
    "The Fed is on hold now because the data have been so
confusing," he said.
    "Before the 337,000 gain in February non-farm payroll
employment, I would have looked for a discount rate cut in
March," he said. "But now Fed officials will have to wait for
the first quarter real U.S. gross national product data in
April to sort things out."
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5205>
West German retail turnover rose a
real one pct in January compared with the same month a year
earlier, according to provisional data from the Federal
Statistics Office.
    There were 26 shopping days in January this year, the same
as in January 1986, a Statistics Office statement said.
    A Statistics Office official added retail turnover had
risen by 7.6 pct in December compared with the year-ago month,
a slight upward revision from the 7.5 pct increase
provisionally posted.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5256>
The volume of U.K. Retail sales rose a
provisional, seasonally adjusted 2.2 pct in February after
falling a final 2.2 pct in January, figures released by the
Department of Trade and Industry show.
    The February sales index, base 1980, was put at a
preliminary 125.0 after a final 122.3 in January.
    In the three months from December to February, the level of
sales was little changed over the previous three months but was
nearly six pct higher than the same year ago period.
    On a non-seasonally adjusted value basis, retail sales in
February were a provisional 9.0 pct higher than a year earlier.
    The Department noted the latest figures were similar to the
average in the fourth quarter last year but well above the
January index, which was depressed by the effects of severe
weather.
    The February trading period comprised the four weeks
February 1 to 28. Final February retail sales figures will be
published on April 6.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6955>
Seasonally adjusted retail sales
rose by 0.1 pct in January, compared with increases of 5.7 pct
in December and 1.0 pct a year earlier, the Statistics
Department said.
    It said in a statement actual retail sales fell to 1.87
billion N.Z. Dlrs in January against 2.42 billion a month
earlier and compared with 1.78 billion in January 1986.
    Year-on-year retail sales rose 5.3 pct compared with a 9.6
pct increase in the year-earlier period.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7129>
Canada's retail sales, seasonally
adjusted, fell 0.1 pct in January after gaining 0.9 pct in
December, Statistics Canada said.
    Retail sales fell to 11.98 billion dlrs from 11.99 billion
dlrs in December, 1986. Unadjusted sales were 6.9 pct higher
than in January, 1986.
    In January, automobile sales fell 1.9 pct, department store
sales slipped 3.2 pct and variety stores sales plunged 14 pct.
The declines were offset by a 5.5 pct increase in grocery store
sales and a 9.9 pct gain in hardware sales.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7447>
Shipments of major home appliances in
February rose 9.1 pct to 3.5 mln, up from 3.2 mln a year ago,
reported the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers.
    It said year to date, total major appliance shipments rose
11.4 pct to 7.6 mln from 6.8 mln a year earlier.
    It said strong shipment gains in four of the five appliance
categories resulted in the unprecedented monthly levels, with
records set for shipments of refrigerators, automatic washers,
disposers, dryers and dishwashers.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8173>
French gross domestic product should grow
by 2.3 pct in 1988 after two pct growth this year and 2.1 pct
in 1986, the Finance Ministry said.
    The latest forecast, prepared by the National Accounts and
Budget Commission, assumed an exchange rate of 6.20 francs to
the dollar this year and next and an average oil import price
rising to 18.9 dlrs a barrel next year from 17.4 dlrs this year
and 14.7 in 1986.
    The Commission, headed by Finance minister Edouard
Balladur, forecast a fall in consumer price inflation to two
pct year-on-year at end-1988 from 2.4 pct at end 1987 and 2.1
pct last year.
    In annual average terms inflation would fall to two pct in
1988 from 2.5 pct this year and 2.7 pct last year, it said.
    Trade should show a one billion franc annual surplus this
year and next after last year's 0.5 billion surplus, it added.
    Employment should rise by 0.1 pct a year over the next two
years while the state budget deficit should be cut to 2.2 pct
of GDP in 1988 from 2.6 pct this year and 2.9 pct in 1986.
    Other forecasts prepared by the Commission indicated a 1.8
pct 1988 rise in household purchasing power, up from 1.1 pct
this year but less than last year's 2.9 pct, and a 1.6 pct rise
in household consumption, compared with this year's 1.5 pct and
last year's 2.9 pct.
    Business investment is forecast to rise four pct a year
this year and next after 3.7 pct last year, with private sector
productive investment rising 4.9 pct in 1988 after a six pct
rise this year and 5.5 pct in 1986.
    The Ministry said updated forecasts would be prepared
before the autumn to serve as the basis for the 1988 budget,
which the government is now preparing for presentation in
September.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8451>
French household consumption of
industrial goods fell 1.1 pct seasonally adjusted to 21.32
billion francs last month from 21.55 billion in January, the
National Statistics Institute (INSEE) said.
    This brought consumption back down to the December 1986
level, it added.
    INSEE said that the fall was due to a sharp decline in
purchases of clothing, which were high in January due to the
cold weather. The decline was partly compensated by a small
rise in purchases of durable goods.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8706>
New orders for durable goods
received by U.S. manufacturers rose 5.7 billion dlrs, or 6.0
pct, in February to 101.2 billion dlrs, the Commerce Department
said.
    Excluding defense, orders rose 3.8 pct, compared with a
revised January decline of 7.7 pct.
    In January, durable goods fell a revised 9.9 pct instead of
the previously reported 7.5 pct. Durables excluding defense
were reported originally as having fallen 9.9 pct in January.
    The Commerce Department on Monday revised orders statistics
for 1982 to 1986 to reflect more current inventory valuation
methods, and the February orders statistics are consistent with
the revisions, officials said.
    The February order increase was led by transportation
equipment, up 11.1 pct after an 18.0 pct decline in January.
    Orders for defense capital goods rose 48.9 pct to 6.9
billion dlrs, following a 38.8 pct decline in January.
    Non-defense capital goods orders fell 1.6 pct in February
to 26.3 billion dlrs after falling 8.7 pct in January, the
department said.
    Electrical machinery orders rose in February by 8.2 pct to
17.2 billion dlrs after falling 15.4 pct in January.
    Primary metals orders were up 13.9 pct to 8.4 billion dlrs
after a 20 pct decline in January, the department said.
    New orders for non-electrical machinery were up in February
by 3.9 pct to 16.6 billion dlrs after a three pct orders
decline in January.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8746>
The U.S. economy is showing some
promising signs of accelerated expansion despite the
sluggishness of the fourth quarter last year, private
economists say.
    Some of the slowness experienced in the October-December
period had been expected to spill over into the first quarter
this year, as the tax law changes that went into effect in
January slowed business and consumer spending.
    But some of the latest economic data show signs of
surprising strength in the U.S. economy, although some
economists remain cautious about the outlook.
    The Commerce Department reported today that new orders for
durable goods in February jumped by 5.7 billion dlrs, a six pct
rise, to 101.2 billion dlrs. Even excluding volatile defense
goods, durable goods orders rose a healthy 3.8 pct, the agency
said.
    The February numbers surpassed the expectations of many
financial analysts, whose predictions ranged from flat to
increases of up to five pct.
    The January/February employment statistics suggest the
Gross National Product will show a healthy rate of growth for
the first three months of this year, said Lyle Gramley, an
economist with the Mortgage Bankers Association.
    The U.S. jobless rate in February and January was 6.7 pct,
the lowest rate since March 1980. The number of new non-farm
jobs rose by 337,000 in February after a 319,000 gain in
January and a 225,000 December increase, the government said.
    The employment data suggests a GNP annual growth rate of
about three to 3.25 pct in the first quarter, said Gramley.
    Much of that will be attributed to businesses rebuilding
their inventories and is not likely to be sustained in the
second quarter, Gramley said. He expects a slowdown in the
second quarter with smaller increases in personal consumption
and government spending. He also sees residential construction
declining mostly for multi-family housing units.
    Fidelity Bank senior economist Mickey Levy said some of the
fourth quarter slowness will continue.
    Levy predicts GNP will grow at a scant 1.5 pct rate in the
first quarter of 1987, accelerate during the second quarter and
show a brisk 4.5 pct annual rate in the third quarter.
    The key to both forecasts is a marked improvement in the
U.S. trade balance which is expected because of the decline in
the dollar's value over the last year and half.
    "The improvement will be gradual and long lasting," Levy
predicted. Most of it will be through import reduction, but at
least one-third will be due to a rise in product exports as the
prices of U.S. goods become more attractive overseas.
    The Reagan administration has predicted the trade deficit,
which soared to record levels last year, will improve this year
and the U.S. economy will grow by a respectable 3.2 pct for the
year compared with a 2.5 pct rate last year.
    As part of the effort to reduce the trade deficit, the U.S.
has been pressing West Germany and Japan to stimulate their
domestic demand for goods from the U.S. and others.
    U.S. officials believe that would help take some of the
pressure off the United States whose five years of economic
growth has been the mainstay of developing countries.
    The U.S. economy provided them with a giant market for
their goods giving them a way to earn income badly needed to
service their foreign debt.
    The government last week said the U.S. economy grew at a
modest 1.1 pct annual rate during the fourth quarter.
    There were indications of improvement in the huge imbalance
between the volume of goods imported to the United States and
those shipped abroad. The report showed a rising volume of
exports corresponding to a decline in imports despite the fact
that in current dollar terms, the U.S. trade deficit worsened
during the closing three months of 1986.
    While fourth quarter economic growth was weak, corporate
profits jumped a healthy 6.1 pct during the period, the
government said. It also reported that inflation, as measured
by the GNP price deflator, remained in check, growing a
moderate 0.7 pct in the period, the lowest rise in 19 years.
    The government also reported that consumer spending, a key
element of the five year economic recovery, jumped 1.7 pct in
February, after falling two pct in January.
    The Federal Reserve Board also reported that the
manufacturing sector, which had been one of the weaker elements
of the U.S. economy, was showing signs of recovery.
    In its latest report on current economic conditions, the
Fed said that economic activity in the various regions of the
country ranged from uneven or steady to improving.
Manufacturing activity showed signs of improvement in most
regions except Dallas where orders remained sluggish.
    Chase Econometrics Chairman Lawrence Chimerine said the
pick up in the U.S. manufacturing sector is largely due to the
drop in the dollar's value. He said he does not foresee a major
pick up in economic activity, but does not believe the economy
will slip into recession either.
    He said higher prices on imported products and wage cuts
that have helped the manufacturing sector will squeeze
consumers purchasing power.
    "That pattern is starting and will continue for a number of
years," Chimerine said. He sees economic growth hovering around
a modest two pct level for the next few years.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9974>
West German retailers expect another good
year in 1987 even though they will not be able to repeat the
sharp increase in turnover they enjoyed in 1986, the General
Association of the German Retail Trade (HDE) said.
    HDE President Wolfgang Hinrichs said retailers would be
satisfied with a real turnover increase of between 2.5 pct to
three pct in 1987 after last year's steep 3.7 pct rise.
    Hinrichs said the 1986 turnover increase had brought the
first hesitant signs of improvement in earnings in the West
German retail sector.
 REUTER
</BODY>
