<BODY DOCID=228>
Thailand exported 84,960 tonnes of rice
in the week ended February 24, up from 80,498 the previous
week, the Commerce Ministry said.
    It said government and private exporters shipped 27,510 and
57,450 tonnes respectively.
    Private exporters concluded advance weekly sales for 79,448
tonnes against 79,014 the previous week.
    Thailand exported 689,038 tonnes of rice between the
beginning of January and February 24, up from 556,874 tonnes
during the same period last year. It has commitments to export
another 658,999 tonnes this year.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=235>
Indonesia"s agriculture sector will grow
by just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pct
in 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates or
declines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.
    Production of Indonesia"s staple food, rice, is forecast to
fall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of
26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report on
Indonesia"s agricultural performance.
    The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at
26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in
1987.
    The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mln
tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because of
a drawdown on stocks.
    "Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not look
promising as rice production is forecast to decline and the
production of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or no
gain," the report says.
    "The modest overall increase which is expected will be due
to significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oil
and palm kernels."
    Constraints to significant overall increases in
agricultural output include a shortage of disease resistant
seeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance by
farmers to shift from rice production to other crops, the
report underlines.
    The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak of
pests known as "wereng" or brown plant hoppers in 1986 which
largely offset gains in yields.
    The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57
insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are now
resistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, more
resistant rice types.
    The government is depending on increased production of
export commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood and
palm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crude
oil prices.
    Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pct
in 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports rising
to an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, the
report says.
    But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) will
rise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports will
also rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.
    The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybean
meal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of last
September"s 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a rise
in domestic demand.
    The report said that Indonesia"s overall economic
performance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slight
negative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since the
mid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pct
in 1984.
    The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsible
for the slump.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1590>
Sen. Rudy Boschwitz, R-Minn., said he
intended to offer legislation that would allow 1987 producers
of wheat, feedgrains, cotton and rice to receive at least 92
pct of their deficiency payments, regardless of how much they
planted.
    Boschwitz told the Senate Agriculture Committee that
applying the so-called 0/92 provision to 1987 crops was
supported by the Reagan administration and would save
approximately 500 mln dlrs, including 266 mln dlrs in corn
payments, 90 mln dlrs in wheat and 30 mln dlrs in cotton.
    The Minnesota senator said he might offer the bill on the
Senate floor or in a conference committee with the House of
Representatives in the event a similar bill before the House
Agriculture Committee is approved by that body.
    Boschwitz told Reuters that neither he nor the U.S.
Agriculture Department had decided whether or how deficiency
payments should be guaranteed to farmers who might choose not
to plant under the decoupling scheme.
    If payments are not set in advance under decoupling, market
prices conceivably could rise, thereby leading to diminished
deficiency payments.
    Senate Agriculture Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy, D-Vt.,
said he wanted to go to conference with the House as soon as
possible on the issue, but would have to study the matter
further before deciding how he would vote on it.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1882>
The package of proposed farm policy
changes that the Reagan administration sent to Congress today
includes a provision that would eliminate minimum price support
levels for upland cotton, rice and soybeans.
    The package, obtained by Reuters, also includes a
provision, outlined in advance by USDA officials, that would
increase the annual permissible cut in the basic price support
levels for all major crops to 10 pct from five pct.
    Under current law, the basic support prices for upland
cotton, rice and soybeans between 1987 and 1990 cannot be cut
below 50 cents per lb, 6.50 dlrs per hundredweight and 4.50
dlrs per bushel, respectively.
    USDA's intention to propose scrapping price floors for
cotton, rice and soybeans had not been disclosed previously.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1915>
Thailand's main paddy crop is expected
to fall to 15.4 mln tonnes in the 1986/87 (Nov/Oct) season from
a previous 15.68 mln estimate in November and an actual 17.35
mln a year ago, the Thai Rice Mills Association said.
    It said a joint field survey late last month by the
association, the Commerce Ministry and the Bank of Thailand
indicated that paddy output in Thailand's northeast region is
lower than expected because of a drought in several provinces.
    The association said rice growing areas in Nakhon
Ratchasima, Chaiyaphum, Khon Kaen and Mahasarakam were
especially affected by low rainfalls in the second half of
1986.
    It said last November that the drought reduced total
national areas sown with paddy to some 8.25 mln hectares this
year, down from 8.84 mln a year ago.
    The main crop represents about 85 pct of Thailand's paddy
output.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10519>
Jamaica bought U.S. corn, wheat and
rice at its tender earlier this week using PL-480 funds, a U.S.
Department of Agriculture official said.
    The purchase consisted of the following cargoes -
 - Cargill sold 1,503.5 tonnes of number two soft red winter
(SRW) wheat for May 5/30 shipment at 117.44 dlrs per tonne FOB
Gulf ports.
 - Continental Grain 8,250 tonnes of number two northern
spring/dark northern spring (NS/DNS) wheat (14.5 pct protein)
for April 15/May 10 at 123.97 dlrs FOB Gulf, excluding
Brownsville.
 - Nichemen 10,000 tonnes number two SRW wheat for June 12/July
7 at 103.43 dlrs FOB Gulf.
 - Nichemen 10,000 tonnes number two NS/DNS wheat (14.0 pct
protein) for May 25/June 20 at 121.89 dlrs FOB Gulf.
 - Cargill 10,000 tonnes number two SRW wheat for April 10/May
5 at 120.88 dlrs FOB Gulf.
 - Cargill 8,469.5 tonnes number two SRW wheat for May 5/30 at
117.44 dlrs FOB Gulf.
 - Louis Dreyfus 4,500 tonnes number three yellow corn (15.0
pct maximum moisture) for April 10/May 5 at 76.09 dlrs FOB
Gulf.
 - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn April 20/May 15 at
75.89 dlrs FOB Gulf.
 - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn May 10/June 5 at 75.49
dlrs FOB Gulf.
 - Louis Dreyfus 5,300 tonnes same corn June 1/25 at 75.49 dlrs
FOB Gulf.
 - Loius Dreyfus 3,700 tonnes number two yellow corn (14.5 pct
maximum moisture) for Apirl 10/May 5 at 76.29 dlrs FOB Gulf.
 - Louis Dreyfus 3,700 tonnes same corn for May 10/June 5 at
75.68 dlrs FOB Gulf.
    Exporters have not received final PL-480 approval on their
sale of a total of 9,500 tonnes of U.S. number five or better
long grain brown rice (10 pct maximum broken) for April 10/May
25 shipments.
    But the USDA official said he saw no hold-up in obtaining
that approval.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10830>
Sri Lanka has appealed to 24 countries
for emergency aid to help 2.4 mln villagers affected by the
country's worst drought in 36 years, government officials said.
    Embassies received letters over the weekend outlining aid
needed for a sixth of Sri Lanka's population in 13 districts.
    The letter said the government had to step in "to avert
serious economic hardship" and because the Social Services
Ministry had already used up its entire 1987 budget provision
of 23 mln rupees by distributing help to the worst hit areas.
    The letter said 548.76 mln rupees were needed for a six
month period, at least until the May-September (Yala) rice crop
was harvested. Over 25,000 tonnes of wheat, rice, flour and
other cereals were required, it said, along with supplies of
sugar, lentils, dried or canned fish and milk.
    In some of the most seriously affected districts, the Maha
(October 1986-April 1987) crop had been "almost completely
devastated," the letter said. Maha paddy output was now
estimated at 70 mln bushels, 20 mln less than originally
expected.
    There were two scenarios for the Yala crop, with a high
forecast of around 40 mln bushels conditional on adequate
rainfall within the next three to four weeks.
    "Should the present drought continue, however, production is
estimated at around 20 mln bushels," the letter added.
    Total estimated paddy output for 1987 would be between 90
and 110 mln bushels, or 1.35 to 1.65 mln tonnes of rice. Last
year's output was 124 mln bushels, down from 127 mln in 1985.
    The letter said villagers in most seriously affected
districts had been deprived of any means of subsistence because
subsidiary crops had also failed.
    It said the government's current budget did not permit it
to provide sustained and adequate relief to those affected.
"Revenue has been adversely affected by depressed commodity
prices and slowing of the economy. Defence commitments continue
to exert pressure on the expenditure side."
    The 548.76 mln cash would cover payments of 150 rupees per
month for each family, as well as handling, transport and
distribution of emergency food. But such an outlay of funds by
the government would not be possible without seriously
impairing development projects, or "greatly fuelling inflation"
in the economy, the letter said.
    The letter said the Food Department would be able to
release wheat and rice from the buffer stock to meet the
immediate cereal requirements "provided such stocks are replaced
subsequently."
    The Meteorological Department said the country was
experiencing its worst drought since 1951 and the four-month
dry spell prevailing in most of the areas would only break when
the monsoon rains fell in late May.
    The letter said some areas had been experiencing the
drought since August, and in the rice growing district of
Kurunegala there had been no effective rainfall since June
1986.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11216>
Rainfall in the past few days has eased
the threat of drought in the south China province of Guangdong,
the New China News Agency said.
    It said 75 pct of early rice fields are ready to be planted
and seedlings have already been transplanted on 90 pct of rice
fields in Hainan island. Some 840,000 hectares of farmland have
been planted with cash crops including sugar cane, peanuts and
soybeans, 67,000 ha more than in 1986.
    The provincial government has increased investment in grain
and taken effective measures to combat natural disasters this
year, the agency said, but gave no further details.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11536>
Moderate to heavy rain continued
over early double-crop rice areas in eastern Guangxi,
Guanghdong, eastern Hunan, Jiangxi, Fujian, and Zhejiang in the
week ended March 28, the Joint Agricultural Weather Facility of
the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce Departments said.
    In its International Weather and Crop summary, the agency
said The moisture lessened the need for irrigation. Moisture
for early rice planting is adequate to abundant in most areas,
and inundative rain in Guangdong and southern Jiangxi may have
washed out some rice fields requiring replanting.
     Light showers in southern Sichuan increased topsoil
moisture for corn planting, which likely is off to a slow start
due to earlier dryness, it said.
    In the North China Plain, dry weather covered winter wheat
in the vegetative stage, and rain is needed to meet increasing
crop moisture requirements, it said.
    Weekly temperatures in the North China Plain were near
normal, the agency noted.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11640>
The U.S. Agriculture Department said
it has extended until April 17 the date by which Agricultural
Stabilization and Conservation county offices must determine
eligibility of individuals or other entities for payments under
1987 farm programs.
    Jerome Sitter, director of ASCS's Cotton, Grain and Rice
Price Support Division, said the decision meant farmers have
until April 17 to file a farm operating plan indicating how
many persons would be involved in their farming operations.
    Earlier this year USDA extended the deadline to April 1
from March 1, Sitter said.
    ASCA Administrator Milton Hertz said in a statement that
the extension was necessary because of heavy workloads at
county ASCS offices.
    Hertz said ASCS county officials "have had to make a large
number of eligibility determinations for individuals and other
entities, such as corporations and partnerships, in preparation
for imposing the 50,000-dlr-per-entity cap."
    "These offices already had a very heavy workload due to the
large number of applications for both the 1987 farm programs
and the Conservation Reserve Program," Hertz said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11655>
The Commodity Credit Corporation
(CCC) has switched 10 mln dlrs in credit guarantees to Mexico
to cover purchases of U.S. wheat, the U.S. Agriculture
Department said.
    The credit guarantees were previously earmarked for sales
of U.S. dry edible beans and rice, it said.
    The action reduces the guarantee lines previously
authorized of dry edible beans to by five mln dlrs to 45 mln
dlrs and for rice from five mln to zero and increases coverage
for wheat sales from five mln to 15 mln dlrs.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13123>
Rising demand for U.S. rice may
gradually reduce surpluses while a marketing loan should help
increase the U.S. share of the world rice market despite
sluggish trade this year, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.
    In its quarterly rice outlook and situation summary, the
department said U.S. rice use may surpass production during the
1986/87 marketing year, causing stocks to fall about 10 mln
hundredweight from a year earlier to an estimated 67 mln cwt on
July 31.
    Long grain acreage as a percentage of total acreage is
expected to decline this year, the report said.
    USDA said factors once supportive of increased long grain
acreage have turned around. Domestic prices of medium grain
relative to long grain have increased, the loan differential
has been greatly reduced and increases in long grain yields
relative to those of other classes have leveled off.
    With the drop in domestic prices resulting from the
marketing loan, domestic rice use is expected to grow at a
faster rate, USDA said.
    "Development of new products and increased promotion have
helped make rice more available and visible to a wider range of
consumers," USDA said.
    USDA said world trade is expected to fall in 1987 because
of large production and stocks but a weaker market should
affect competing exporters more than the U.S.
    "The United States has already recovered a substantial share
of the European Community market and made inroads into markets
in the Middle East and Africa," the report said.
    World rice consumption is projected to reach record levels
in 1986/87, the report said, as higher per capita incomes,
increased domestic production and low import prices have
allowed people in many countries to substitute rice for coarse
grains.
    China, India and South Korea have increased output, while
the Middle East and Africa have doubled imports since the
mid-1970s, the report said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13129>
The U.S. Agriculture Department said
Turkey has been made eligible for the sale of up to 70,000
tonnes of medium grain milled rice under the department's
export enhancement program, EEP.
    As with the 65 previous EEP initiatives, the export sales
would be subsidized with commodities from the inventory of the
Commodity Credit Corp and made at competitive world prices,
USDA said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13294>
Thailand exported 75,160 tonnes of rice
in the week ended March 31, down from 88,785 tonnes the
previous week, the Commerce Ministry said.
    It said the government and private exporters shipped 36,552
and 38,608 tonnes respectively.
    Private exporters concluded advance weekly sales for 22,086
tonnes against 44,483 tonnes the previous week.
    Thailand exported 1.23 mln tonnes of rice in January/March,
down from 1.29 mln tonnes a year ago. It has commitments to
export another 381,171 tonnes this year.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=14515>
The U.S. Agriculture Department
announced the following prevailing world market prices of rice
on a loan-rate basis, with previous prices --
    -- Long grain whole kernels 5.87 cts per lb vs 5.70
    -- Medium grain whole kernels 5.28 cts per lb vs 5.12
    -- Short grain whole kernels  5.22 cts per lb vs 5.06
    -- Broken kernels 2.94 cts per lb vs 2.85
    The repayment rate for 1986-crop warehouse or farm-stored
rice loans are the higher of the world price or 50 pct of the
loan rate of 7.20 dlrs per cwt.
    The prices will remain in effect for a week, but new prices
could be announced earlier if warranted, USDA said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3358>
The Agricultural Stabilization and
Conservation Service (ASCS) bought 25.7 mln pounds of wheat
flour at a cost of 2.8 mln dlrs for domestic shipment April
1-15 and April 16-30, an ASCS spokesman said.
    ASCS also bought 11.1 mln pounds of bakers flour for 1.1
mln dlrs, 1.9 mln pounds of pasta for 408,258 dlrs, 1.4 mln
pounds of processed cereal products for 304,043 dlrs, 4.8 mln
pounds of corn products for 474,944 dlrs, and 16.3 mln pounds
of milled rice for 2.0 mln dlrs.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3445>
The Sichuan government has ordered that
any work or meeting which interferes with the fight against
drought must be cancelled or postponed to save time, energy and
manpower, the People's Daily domestic edition said.
    Sichuan is one of six provinces threatened by drought.
    Wen Wei Po, a Hong Kong daily, said the drought, the worst
for more than 20 years, is affecting nearly two mln hectares in
100 counties in Sichuan, the country's biggest agricultural
producer.
    Sichuan has experienced temperatures three degrees
Centigrade higher than normal and rainfall up to 70 pct less
than normal since early February, affecting wheat, oil-bearing
crops, rice planting and dryland cash crops, it said.
    The paper said 43,000 hectares in Meixian county in
Guangdong are seriously short of water.
    The People's Daily said Henan, Shaanxi, Gansu and Hebei are
also suffering from drought.
    Henan's grain output fell by 2.5 mln tonnes last year from
the 1985 level because of drought which has been affecting the
province since May.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4133>
A Japanese real estate company
said it will launch a campaign to sell land in U.S. Farming
areas to rich Japanese.
    Higashi Nippon House said it would offer around 2,200 acres
of land in Illinois, California, Florida and Indiana from early
April to gauge response. It set up International Farm Corp of
America in Chicago last September to oversee the operation.
    American farmers would continue as working tenants and part
of the profits from harvests of rice, corn, soybean and oranges
would go to the Japanese investors as rental.
    Japanese Agriculture Ministry officials told Reuters sales
were limited to farmers to keep land in agricultural use.
    "Two years ago, I began to seek my own farmland in Japan,"
said Isao Nakamura, president of Higashi Nippon. "However, sale
of Japanese farmland is strictly controlled by the government,
so I began to look for the land in the U.S to make my dream to
own farm land come true."
    Nakamura said hundreds of companies exist in the U.S. To
sell farmland to investors as more and more farmers face
difficulties due to the recession in U.S. Agriculture.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4314>
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Richard
Lyng said he will ask Japan to offer a share of its rice market
to U.S. exporters when he visits that country next month.
    In an interview with Reuters, Lyng also said the Reagan
administration will ask Tokyo to remove its quotas on U.S. beef
and citrus exports.
    Lyng, who plans to be in Japan April 14-27, said he will
not ask Tokyo to liberalize fully its rice market. "We will urge
that they consider sharing their rice market," he said.
    The USDA secretary would not say how big a share of the
Japanese rice market the U.S. would request. "We've got none of
it now. If we got one per cent of it, it would be a big
improvement," he said.
    Last year, the Reagan administration rejected a petition by
the U.S. rice industry seeking relief from Japanese import
restrictions.
    However, the U.S. said it would reexamine the issue if by
mid-1987 Japan did not roll back import barriers to U.S. rice
exports.
    Lyng said he would not be conducting formal negotiations
next month with Japan over their beef and citrus quotas, but
that his visit "may be a forerunner in a general way" to talks
prior to expiration of the bilateral agreement in March 1988.
    He said, however, that the U.S. "will ask for a definite
liberalization of those items (beef and citrus).... When you
translate 'liberalization' into Japanese, it means do away with
the quota."
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4549>
A marketing loan for U.S. wheat,
feedgrains and soybeans would do nothing to help the surplus
production situation and would be extremely costly, Sen. Rudy
Boschwitz (R-Minn.) said.
    "I think I would not support a marketing loan now," he told
the House agriculture subcommittee on wheat, soybeans and
feedgrains. Boschwitz was one of the original supporters of a
marketing loan for cotton and rice, but has since focused
support on decoupling legislation, the Boren/Boschwitiz bill.
    A market loan for grains and soybeans would encourage more
production, especially in high-yielding areas, would be much
more expensive than the current cotton and rice marketing loans
and not increase exports significantly, he said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4678>
Kampuchea harvested more than two mln
tonnes of rice paddy in 1986, up on the crops of the previous
two years, the official SPK news agency said yesterday.
    Diplomats said estimates put the 1985 harvest at less than
one mln tonnes, slightly up on 800,000 in 1984.
    SPK said Kampuchea planned to expand planting from 1.5 mln
to 1.93 mln hectares and boost rice paddy output to 2.5 mln
tonnes this calendar year.
    Two mln tonnes of paddy would produce some 1.3 mln tonnes
of milled rice, above the 1.25 mln tonnes Kampuchea says is the
minimum its 7.5 mln people need.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4719>
Burma's paddy production fell to 729.4
mln baskets in fiscal year 1986-1987 (to end March) from 737.3
mln in 1985-1986, a cabinet report to parliament said.
    A basket is a local measure equal to 46 lbs.
    Paddy output in 1984-1985 was 699.1 mln baskets, it said.
    Burma's "Green Revolution" sparked by the introduction of
high-yield variety paddy strains in the mid-1970s appears to
have hit a plateau with production levelling off over the past
two years, economists said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5266>
Madagascar's vital rice crop is
estimated at 2,286,000 tonnes of paddy this year, up from
2,138,000 in 1986, the Ministry of Agriculture said.
    The Trade Ministry said rice imports quadrupled in local
currency value during the first nine months of last year as the
government established a buffer stock of the country's staple
food.
    Rice imports increased to 82.4 billion Malagasy francs
during the first nine months of last year from 20 billion in
the same period of 1985, the ministry said, without disclosing
the tonnages involved.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=5610>
Farmers enrolled over 6.5 mln acres
of program crops in the latest conservation reserve program
signup and around four mln acres of non-program crops,
Agriculture Department conservation specialists said.
    Soybean acreage amounted to less than two mln acres of the
non-program crop acreage enrolled, a USDA analyst said. Heavy
enrollment of non-base acreage in wheat states, of which a big
percentage would be fallow and non-soybean land, accounted for
a large portion of the non-program acreage, the analyst said.
    Wheat and corn acreage comprised slightly over 40 pct of
the total 10,572,402 acres accepted into the ten-year program.
    USDA analysts gave the following enrollment breakdown:
    -- wheat  2,615,140 acres
    -- corn   1,894,764 acres
    -- barley   705,888 acres
    -- sorghum  585,552 acres
    -- cotton   417,893 acres
    -- rice       2,035 acres
    -- peanuts      611 acres
    -- tobacco      285 acres
    -- total program crops  6,512,700 acres
    -- total nonprogram     4,059,702 acres
    -- total enrollment    10,572,402 acres
    USDA analysts are currently working on a complete state
breakdown of crop acreage enrollment and should have it ready
for publication later this week, they said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6114>
Light, scattered showers covered
winter wheat areas in the North China Plain in the week ended
March 14, moistening topsoils for wheat, just breaking dormancy
in most central and northern areas, the Joint Agricultural
Weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and Commerce
Departments said.
    In its International Weather and Crop summary, the agency
said southern winter wheat areas are in the early vegetative
stage. Above-normal February temperatures over the North China
Plain caused winter grains to break dormancy early in the
south.
     Moderate to heavy rains in southern Jiangsu, Anhui,
eastern Hebei, Hunan , Jiangxi, Fujian, and Zheziang, reversed
February's below normal precipitation pattern.
    The agency said the wet weather in these areas provided
ample moisture for rice planting and lessened the need for
irrigation. 
    Mostly dry weather in early-rice areas of Guanxi and
Guandong resulted in irrigation for continued rice planting, it
said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6153>
Dry weather covered most European
crop areas in the week ended March 14, except for those in
southwestern France, southern Italy, and Greece, the Joint
Agricultural Weather Facility of the U.S. Agriculture and
Commerce Departments said.
    In its International Weather and Crop sumary, the agency
said mixed rain and snow covered Greece.
    Winter grains in England, France, and northern Italy
remained dormant. Grains usuaually break dormancy in March.
    Winter grains in Eastern Europe usually break dormancy in
early April, it said.
    Showers improved irrigation supplies in winter wheat areas
of northern Pakistan and northern India, it said.
    Normally, wheat harvesting is well underwaty in central
India and just beginnning to the north, ending in most areas by
late April.
    Showers improved irrigation supplies in southern India,
reversing February's below-normal trend.
    Summer rice is usually in or nearing reproduction in most
southern areas, it said.
    In the Philippines, most rainfall was restricted to the
central islands, continuing February's drying trend in Luzon
and southern Mindanao.
    Locally heavy showers dotted Indonesia and Malaysia as
rainfall generally decreased eastward through the islands.
    In February locally heavy showers may have caused flooding
in Java, it said.
    The second cnsecutive week of dry weather stressed Moroccan
winter grains, approaching teh heading stage, the agency said.
    Light to moderate rain spread from northern Thailand to
Northern Vietnam as dry weather prevailed elsewhere in
Southeast Asia.
    Dry weather covered winter grain areas in western and
central Algeria, but soil moisture was likely adequate to meet
crop demands, it said.
    Light showers in eastern Algeria and Tunisia maintained
adequate moisture for crop growth, it said.
    Timely rains will be needed in the next several weeks as
winter grains advance through the critical reproductive phase,
the agency said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6269>
Seven major U.S. farm groups took
the unusual step of releasing a joint statement urging
congressional leaders not to tinker with existing farm law.
    Following meetings with House Agriculture Committee
Chairman Kika de la Garza (D-Tex.) and Senate Agriculture
Committee Chairman Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.), the groups issued a
statement saying lawmakers should "resist efforts to overhaul
the 15-month-old law, which is operating in its first crop
marketing year."
    The farm groups included the American Farm Bureau
Federation, American Soybean Association, National Cattlemen's
Association, National Corn Growers Association, National Cotton
Council, National Pork Producers Council and the U.S. Rice
Producers Legislative Group.
    The statement said Congress should not modify the 1985 farm
bill "so the law might have its intended impact of making
agriculture more competitive in export markets while at the
same time maintaining farm income."
    "We strongly believe American farmers now need
predictability and certainty in farm legislation in order to
have any opportunity of making proper production and marketing
decisions," the groups said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7160>
The Agricultural Stabilization and
Conservation Service (ASCS) is seeking offers to process rough
rice owned by the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) and
deliver about 27.0 mln pounds of milled rice for export
shipment May 6-20 and May 21-June 5, an ASCS spokesman said.
    Offers must be received by 1300 CDT April 7, and successful
offerors will be notified April 10.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7545>
Three geographically diverse droughts
in Asia are being linked by some scientists to a
reintensification of the complex and little-understood El Nino
weather pattern, &lt;Accu-Weather Inc>, a commercial weather
forecasting service, said.
    Rice and wheat farmers in China, wheat and sugarcane
growers in Australia and tea planters in Sri Lanka all face
serious losses to their respective harvests unless rains arrive
in time to break the droughts, offical reports, government
officials and meteorologists said.
    Wen Wei Po, a Hong Kong daily with close Peking links, said
the drought is the worst in over 20 years and some provinces
have been without adequate rainfall for more than seven months.
    Rice planting is threatened in eight provinces, it added.
    Rainfall in the key farming provinces of Henan and Sichuan
was 70 pct below average during February, the lowest figure for
over 20 years, the paper said.
    The dry weather has cut stored water volumes by over 20 pct
compared with last March and lowered the water levels of many
rivers, it added.
    This has resulted in reduced hydro-electric power, causing
shortages to industry and households. The upper reaches of the
Yangtze are at their lowest levels in a century, causing many
ships to run aground, Wen Wei Po said.
    Unusually high temperatures have also been reported across
China, media reports said. The People's Daily said Sichuan has
recorded temperatures three degrees Celsius higher than average
since early February.
    The New China News Agency said the average December
temperature in Harbin in the northeast was six degrees higher
than last December and 14 degrees higher than December 1984.
    Severe drought is affecting about one-third of Sri Lanka
and threatens to reduce the country's tea crop, Ministry of
Plantation Industries officials told Reuters
    In Australia, concern is growing about below-average
rainfall levels in parts of the sugarcane belt along the
Queensland coast and in Western Australia's wheat belt, local
Meteorological Bureau officials said.
    For many farmers and government officials the fear is that
while the present low rainfall does not yet pose a major
threat, the prospect of a dry autumn/winter season when the
wheat crop is in its early stages certainly does, they added.
    Concern is heightened by the memory of the 1982/83 drought
which devastated the wheat crop and coincided with the
occurrence of the barely understood weather phenomenon known as
El Nino, they said.
    Although meteorologists are cautious about linking the
Asia-Pacific region's disrupted weather patterns to any single
cause, El Nino's role is being closely studied, they said.
    Accu-Weather Inc, which specialises in providing data for
agriculture and shipping interests, said each El Nino 'event'
was unique.
    The El Nino does not always produce the same effects and
the present occurrence is much less pronounced than the last
major event in 1982/83, it said.
    El Nino, Spanish for "Christ Child" because it appears around
Christmas, is formed by the action of warm air, bearing clouds
and rain, shifting from the Indonesian archipelago to the coast
of Peru, where it mingles with the cold waters associated with
the Peru current and returns across the Pacific as the trade
winds, meteorologists said.
    The winds, strengthened by El Nino's "pump" effect, raise the
sea level off Australia and Indonesia, they said.
    When the winds drop, the ocean, seeking equilibrium, sends
a surge of warmer water back across the Pacific where it
collides with the cold seas off Peru, they said.
    One effect of this heat exchange is to deflect the
rain-bearing clouds away from Australia and Indonesia into the
Pacific, where they further disrupt other weather patterns.
    The prospects for an end to the droughts vary, Accu-Weather
said.
    China, where the affected areas have received between 40
and 75 pct of normal rainfall, will have to wait for the
May-September rains, it said.
    The May-September rains normally provide the
drought-striken areas with 80 pct of annual rainfall.
    In Australia, areas of Queensland's coastal strip have
received less than half the normal rainfall during the current
wet season, but prospects for increased rains are diminishing
as the rainy season draws to an end.
    In Sri Lanka, the drought has come when rainfall should be
at its maximum for the year. The year's secondary rains usually
occur between April and June, although it is not possible at
this stage to forecast whether they will arrive as usual.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7917>
There are heightened fears that "El
Nino" may be returning to Peru with an intensity approaching the
1983 disaster, which affected the weather on several continents
and caused widespread damage through floods and drought, the
U.S. Agriculture Department's officer in Lima said in a field
report.
    Continued heavy rains in the northern coastal area,
flooding of several major rivers and mud slides have led to
increased concern, the report, dated March 17, said.
    However, it said official sources still believe that this
year's El Nino will have only weak to moderate intensity.
    EL Nino is a phenomenon involving a shift in winds and
waters in the pacific.
    The USDA report said that so far the El Nino now being
experienced has not had an overall negative impact on
agricultural production.
    Excessive rains in the Piura Pima cotton area may reduce
yields by about 20 pct due to excessive growth too early in the
crop cycle.
    Also insect damage to crops could be more extensive where
excessive moisture exists, it said.
    However, the El Nino has resulted in a much improved supply
of irrigation water in the major dams which will improve
prospects for many crucial crops such as rice and corn, and
slow the decline in sugar production, it said.
    If El Nino picks up momentum, Peru's fishing industry could
receive a setback. But trade sources still believe the fish
catch for industrial processing will reach 5.5 mln tonnes in
1987, almost 20 pct above last year, the report said.
    Water temperatures in the northern fishing areas are three
to four degrees centigrade above normal but still not high
enough to drive the fish to cooler southern waters, it said.
    It said there is still the outside chance that El Nino will
intensify and carry on through late March, April and May
causing problems as crops approach harvest.
    "There appears to be no way to project the course of El Nino
-- only time will tell," the report said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8161>
China's top leader Deng Xiaoping said
China must not import more than 10 mln tonnes of grain, Ming
Pao newspaper of Hong Kong said.
    Customs figures show that China imported 7.73 mln tonnes of
grain in 1986, up from 5.97 mln in 1985 but down from a record
16.15 mln in 1982.
    The newspaper quoted Deng as saying that grain output is
one of several key issues that will influence the whole
development of the economy. It did not give the context of his
remarks. The 1987 grain production target is 405 mln, up from
391 mln in 1986.
    The newspaper quoted Deng as saying that the situation has
reached the point where "pigs are not fed, there is not enough
grain and increases in output have slowed."
    "We should in our overall economic planning put agriculture
in its proper place to reach our target of 480 mln tonnes by
the year 2000," he said. "We must avoid the situation in recent
years of importing more than 10 mln tonnes of grain."
    The paper quoted Deng as saying that the State Council has
decided to raise the price of five grains, including corn and
rice, unchanged since 1978, but it gave no details.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8413>
The Senate this week might take up
proposed legislation that could serve as a lightning rod to
expose broad initiatives to change U.S. farm policy.
    The Senate could consider a House-passed bill that would
allow wheat and feedgrains farmers to receive at least 92 pct
of their income support payments if flooding last year
prevented, or will prevent, them from planting their 1987
crops, Senate staff members told Reuters.
    Also pending is a bill extend the life of the National
Commission on Dairy Policy.
    Sen. Rudy Boschwitz, R-Minn., intends to offer an amendment
to one of the bills that would suspend the minimum planting
requirement for all 1987 wheat, feedgrain, cotton and rice
producers, an aide said.
    Under current law, producers must plant at least 50 pct of
their base acreage to be eligible for 92 pct of their
deficiency payments.
    Most major U.S. farm groups have lobbied hard against
making any fundamental changes in the 1985 farm bill out of
fear a full-scale debate could expose agricultural problems to
budget-cutting pressures.
    Representatives of these farm groups have said they also
fear efforts by Midwestern Democrats to force a floor vote on a
bill that would require large acreage set-asides in return for
sharply higher support prices.
    However, Sen. Tom Harkin, D-Iowa, sponsor of the bill, told
Reuters he did not intend to offer his measure as a floor
amendment but to bring it through the committee.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8759>
Rice and corn farmers will receive
the largest payments from the U.S. government during 1987 if
the subsidies are calculated per planted acre, the U.S.
Agriculture Department said.
    USDA said government outlays to rice farmers in 1987 are
expected to reach 403 dlrs per acre planted, followed by corn
at 135 dlrs per planted acre. Government outlays include mainly
deficiency payments and price support loans.
    On a per acre basis, cotton payments will reach 73.24 dlrs
in 1987, wheat 60.30 dlrs, sorghum 54.38 dlrs, barley 27.41
dlrs and oats 2.31 dlrs, USDA said.
    USDA estimates farm subsidies will reach 25.3 billion dlrs
in 1987. The figures were given by USDA officials at a Senate
Agriculture Appropriations hearing yesterday.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9018>
Zaire has been authorized to
purchase about 30,000 tonnes of U.S. rice under an existing PL
480 agreement, the U.S. Agriculture Department said.
    It may buy the rice, valued at 5.5 mln dlrs, between March
31 and August 31, 1987, and ship it from U.S. ports by
September 30, the department said.
    The purchase authorization covers the entire quantity of
rice provided under the agreement.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9705>
Vietnam has ordered its army to grow
more food to ease shortages and meet economic recovery goals
set for 1990.
    The army newspaper Quan Doi Nhan Dan, monitored here, said
soldiers must work harder to care for rice, vegetables and
other crops endangered by the present unusually hot weather.
    The paper said the 1.6-mln strong regular army contributed
less than one pct to the nation's 18.2 mln tonne food output.
    North Vietnam has set a 1990 food target of 23 to 24 mln
tonnes.
 REUTER
</BODY>
