<BODY DOCID=11000>
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel
Lawson said the meeting of six major industrial nations in
Paris last month agreed not to publish any bands in connection
with their pact to stabilise currencies.
    Questioned by a parliamentary select committee about why
the participating countries had not announced any bands, Lawson
replied, "we all agreed it would be much more sensible not to."
When asked whether that meant an informal joint currency float
with set ranges was arranged in Paris, Lawson said "I do not
want to reveal the precise nature of the agreement, so as not
to make it easy for" speculation against the accord.
    Lawson said the Paris accord presumed that individual
countries would take corrective action if their currency began
reacting significantly to domestic macroeconomic factors.
    But if such movements were due to extraneous factors,
Lawson said the other pact countries would come to its aid
through concerted intervention on the foreign exchanges.
    "It is clear that both Germany and Japan are having
difficulty adjusting to their very large exchange rate
appreciations and making their economies more domestically
oriented, just as it is taking time for the United States to
make its own economy more export oriented," Lawson said.
    In his oral evidence to Parliament's Select Treasury
Committee, Lawson repeated that he was happy with the pound's
current level, adding that "It is an objective ... To try to
keep it around that level."
    He said the perception of sterling on foreign exchanges had
changed since the steep drop in oil prices, largely because the
pound had weathered that period so successfully. "There has been
a reassessment of sterling's fundamentals," Lawson said.  He
disagreed with what he termed "the grossly exaggerated claim"
that real U.K. Interest rates were much higher than those of
other major industrialsed countries.
    Using as a reference the key three-month sterling interbank
rate as quoted in London, Lawson said Britain now had a real
interest rate level of 5.75 pct - the same as Japan did and
only a 0.75 percentaage point above the Group of Five average.
    Lawson confirmed that "over the medium and longer term, the
government's objective is zero inflation."
    He said the government's intention of its PSBR constant at
1.0 pct of GDP "is the modern equivalent of the balanced budget
doctrine."  He added that "to allow the debt/GDP ratio to remain
constant on anything other than zero inflation basis is simply
a recipe for accelerating inflation."
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11972>
The Bank of Finland said it has revised
the weightings in its currency basket with effect from today.
Weightings  match the respective country's share in Finland's
foreign trade.
    Weights in percentages compared with former weights.
    Dollar  9.0 (8.8)
    Sterling 14.3 (13.8)
    Swedish crown 20.4 (20.6)
    Norwegian crown 5.2 (5.2)
    Danish crown 5.2 (5.3)
    German mark 19.3 (19.6)
REUTER^M
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12121>
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel
Lawson said he wanted sterling to stay roughly where it was,
specifying a rate of around 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs.
    He told the National Economic Development Council that the
recent Paris meeting of major industrialised nations had agreed
on the need for exchange rate stability. There was now a
"reasonable alignment of currencies" and the U.K. Government
intended to keep sterling at about its present level, he said.
    That meant around 2.90 marks, which is the single most
important rate to concentrate on, and 1.60 dlrs, Lawson said.
    His disclosure of two of the key targets for sterling was
highly unusual, foreign exchange market analysts said.
    In the past he has preferred to be less definite about the
Government's exchange rate policy, lest it give foreign
exchange markets set limits to test.
    Lawson told the committee, which is a tripartite forum of
government, unions and industry, that the pound would be kept
near its present level by a mixture of interest rates and
intervention in the foreign exchange markets.
    The pound finished trading here today at 1.6040/50 dlrs and
2.9210/45 marks.
    His disclosure of two of the key targets for sterling was
highly unusual, foreign exchange market analysts said.
    In the past he has preferred to be less definite about the
Government's exchange rate policy, lest it give foreign
exchange markets set limits to test.
    Lawson told the committee, which is a tripartite forum of
government, unions and industry, that the pound would be kept
near its present level by a mixture of interest rates and
intervention in the foreign exchange markets.
    The pound finished trading here today at 1.6040/50 dlrs and
2.9210/45 marks.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12406>
Money market rates rates showed a harder
edge after news U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson
has set a target for the pound against the mark and dollar, to
be maintained by a mixture of interest rates and intervention
in the foreign exchange markets.
    Dealers said the market was surprised by the Chancellor's
disclosure of sterling target rates, around 2.90 marks and 1.60
dlrs, and nervous over the implications for domestic interest
rates, further reducing the propects for a near term cut in
U.K. Bank base rates. The key three months interbank sterling
rate gained 1/16 point at 10 9-7/8 pct.
    The pound opened three basis points lower at 71.3 in trade
weighted terms, at around 1.59 dlrs and 2.91 marks.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12418>
Interest rates on the London money market
were slightly firmer on news U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
Nigel Lawson had stated target rates for sterling against the
dollar and mark, dealers said.
    They said this had come as a surprise and expected the
targets, 2.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs, to be promptly tested in the
foreign exchange markets. Sterling opened 0.3 points lower in
trade weighted terms at 71.3.
    Dealers noted the chancellor said he would achieve his
goals on sterling by a combination of intervention in currency
markets and interest rates.
    Operators feel the foreign exchanges are likely to test
sterling on the downside and that this seems to make a fall in
U.K. Base lending rates even less likely in the near term,
dealers said.
    The feeling remains in the market, however, that
fundamental factors have not really changed and that a rise in
U.K. Interest rates is not very likely. The market is expected
to continue at around these levels, reflecting the current 10
pct base rate level, for some time.
    The key three months interbank rate was 1/16 point firmer
at 10 9-7/8 pct.
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12447>
Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel
Lawson's remarks yesterday suggesting there are precise
exchange rate targets for the pound undermined sterling,
dashing hopes for an early cut in U.K. Base rates, analysts
said.
    But the market's reaction, testing exchange rate levels
indicated by Lawson, was probably overdone and the longer term
outlook for sterling remained bullish, they agreed.
    In an apparent break with the previous policy of secrecy,
Lawson told a National Economic Development Council meeting he
was comfortable with sterling exchange rates around current
levels, specifying rates of around 1.90 marks and 1.60 dlrs.
    Lawson added the U.K. Government intended to keep sterling
at about present levels, using currency intervention and
interest rates to achieve this.
    The February 22 Paris agreement of the Group of Five and
Canada to stabilise exchange rates is widely believed to
include target ranges, but all participants to the meeting had
so far refused to specify these.
    Markets were quick to react to the statement, chopping
about one U.S. Cent and over one pfennig off the pound to match
the levels mentioned by Lawson.
    But most analysts polled said they did not believe Lawson's
statement signalled a change in U.K. Policy.
    Keith Skeoch, chief economist at stockbrokers James Capel
and Co, said, "the remarks have been blown out of proportion.
Lawson is paying now for a little bit of a slip of the tongue."
    Barclays de Zoete Wedd economist Mark Brett said, "there is
nothing great and fantastic in the Chancellor's statement."
    He said he did not believe the rates indicated by the
Chancellor were precise targets, but merely represented central
rates around which sterling would be allowed to fluctuate,
perhaps by as much as 10 pct.
    "It would be insane to pinpoint an exchange rate ahead of an
election ... I don't believe Lawson is mad enough to tie
himself to a fixed rate," Brett said.
    Currency markets were keen for official statements to
clarify the scope of the Paris accord and reactivate currency
trading. This mood easily led to over-reaction, analysts said.
    "Making similar statements when the market is high strung
and ready to bounce is perhaps a mistake," one senior dealer
with a U.S. Bank said.
    Capel's Skeoch said, "it gives the foreign exchange markets
something to shoot at."
    "It is obvious that the government, as a member of the Group
of Six, has agreed exchange rate bands. But they are not cut in
stone, they can change with time," Skeoch said.
    Brett said, "we think the 2.90 marks level is a central
rate. Give or take 10 pfennigs and all is fine."
    Not all analysts played down the significance of the
remarks, however. Chris Dunn, economist at Royal Bank of
Canada, said the remarks may signal a decisive move to insulate
sterling from the fortunes of the dollar.
    Although about two-thirds of Britain's trade is conducted
with European countries, sterling has traditionally shadowed
the dollar rather than the mark, analysts noted.
    "Britain must decide whether it wants to follow the U.S. Or
throw in its lot with Europe," Dunn said.
    "It suggests that while the U.K. Is not actually applying to
join the European Monetary System, it is seeking protection by
shadowing it ... The Bundesbank has made it clear that it wants
the U.K. To clarify its position relative to the mark," he said.
    Analysts said sterling's dip on currency markets following
Lawson's remarks made an early half-point cut in U.K. Base
rates from current 10 pct levels unlikely in the short term.
    "Over the next three weeks, a cut is out, unless we get some
extremely good economic indicators," Capel's Skeoch said.
    Base rates have been cut twice by one-half point in March,
the last after the March 17 budget presentation, and analysts
had been expecting another half point cut shortly afterwards.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=14767>
News of an agreement among G-5 and G-7
finance ministers meeting in Washington this week will be key
to the direction of currency futures at the International
Monetary Market, but any such agreement will need to go beyond
the Paris accord to stem the recent rise in futures, financial
analysts said.
    "If they (the finance ministers) give the market something
really new to look at -- that is, some package that goes beyond
the Paris agreement -- you could have a real boost in the
dollar," said Shearson Lehman Brothers analyst Anne Mills.
    On the other hand, "anything neutral would tend to be
bearish for the dollar," Mills said.
    Traders and analysts agree a simple reaffirmation of the
Paris accord will not be enough to halt the decline in the
dollar, nor will central bank intervention.
    "A lot of people are looking for a reason to buy currencies
and sell the dollar," said one trader for a large retail firm
on the floor of the IMM.
    "If there is no concrete resolution, they will be looking
to sell the dollar, possibly down to the 1.80 mark level," he
said.
    Technically, most currency futures are poised for another
rise, said Smith Barney Harris Upham analyst Craig Sloane.
    Sloane noted that June yen futures set a new contract high
on Tuesday and closed at its best level ever, while June
sterling set a new contract high on Monday.
    "Everything seems to be coming to a head right now and you
don't need much to get things rolling," Sloane said.
    In particular, the June Canadian dollar, for which Sloane
recently put out a buy recommendation, has hovered in a range
between 0.7600 and 0.7660 in recent weeks, forming a triangle
on the charts from which it may soon break out on the upside.
    A close above the contract high of 0.7665 would signal a
breakout, Sloane said, and would likely mean the nearby
Canadian dollar contract would extend its advance to near the
0.7800 level. June Canadian dollar closed at 0.7656 Tuesday.
    Mills noted, however, that interest rate differentials
between Canadian securities and U.S. securities have narrowed
dramatically recently, with yields on 10-year Canadian bonds
only about 80 basis points above U.S. 10-year notes.
    What has helped the Canadian currency, she noted, is an
increasing proportion of foreign funds flowing into the
Canadian equity market, particularly from Japanese investors.
    Other analysts, however, said currency futures may be near
the top of their long-term rally.
    "Something will be done at the (G-5 and G-7) meeting to
calm people," said David Horner of Merrill Lynch Economics.
    The Paris accord has pretty much fixed where major European
currencies will trade, Horner said.
    But sterling futures may still make another run for new
highs, up to 1.6300 to 1.6500 dlr in the June contract, on the
positive atmosphere that will prevail before British elections
and possibly another interest rate cut, Horner said. The June
British pound closed at 1.6080 on Tuesday.
    Horner said that new boundaries for the trading range of
the yen are likely to come out of the G-5 and G-7 meetings.
    The most likely range will be a bottom for the dollar
between 140 to 142 yen per dollar and a top near 150 to 152
yen, Horner said. In yen futures, the bottom of the dollar's
range would be equivalent to 0.007100 to 0.007150 in the June
contract. June yen closed at 0.006913 on Tuesday.
    If such a range does emerge from the meetings, "we will
have one more rally in the yen," Horner said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3283>
Two new eurosterling bonds were launched
today, making a total of 10 new deals in the sector so far this
month, as borrowers rush to cash in on a bull sterling market
fueled by the strength of the pound and pre-budget euphoria.
    The Bank of England finally gave way to a 1/2 point cut in
banks' base lending rates earlier today, but dealers said this
had been largely discounted and was not likely to detract from
the current popularity of sterling-denominated investments.
    "Sterling, in any shape or form, is flavor of the month and
we're set to see many more eurosterling deals," one dealer said.
    Today's new eurosterling bonds were a 10-year, 100 mln stg
deal for Sweden at 9-1/2 pct and priced at 101-1/4 pct, lead by
Baring Brothers and Co Ltd and a 14 year 60 mln stg convertible
deal for Storehouse Plc launched by SBCI International Ltd. "We
thought we saw a proverbial flood of new deals with the 14 we
had last month but it seems March will beat February hands down
with 10 already," one eurosterling specialist said.
    "Optically, psychologically, these single figures are much
more attractive for the borrower. Eurosterling looks like a
cheap and attractive way to raise your money," he added.
    This accounts for the wide variety of borrowers who have
tapped the sector recently, ranging from sovereigns such as the
Kingdom of Sweden today, continental banks including
Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank and British corporations.
    Another U.K. Merchant bank analyst noted that the current
vogue for eurosterling enabled several corporate borrowers last
month to offer paper priced below comparative gilt yields.
    A Storehouse official confirmed that the issue was aimed at
Swiss and German investors who were showing good interest.
    This is the first entry into the long term international
capital markets by Storehouse, British designer Terence
Conran's retail conglomerate which incorporates U.K. Chain
stores Mothercare, British Home Stores and Habitat.
    "We have been considering the move for quite some time now
and the current strength of the eurosterling sector provided
the perfect opportunity and spur for us to finally tap the
market," Lance Moir, corporate treasurer at Storehouse Plc told
Reuters.

</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3535>
Interest in the currency futures market
has shifted to the soaring British pound and the potentially
explosive Canadian dollar, and away from the dull Continental
and Japanese currencies, analysts said.
    The June pound, which added 6.3 cents over the past
week-and-a-half to reach a new contract high of 1.5930 to the
dollar on Monday, has spawned a new-found speculative boom.
    "Brokers have to push their clients somewhere...and
technically, the pound is in the best shape," PaineWebber
analyst Jason Gillard said.
    "We've tried to take a bullish approach to the pound, and
we're going to stay with that, there's no reason to change,"
Smith Barney analyst Craig Sloane said.
    Many traders took on long pound/short West German mark
futures positions, although some of those cross-trades were
liquidated yesterday, Sloane said.
     The fundamental keys to the pound's rise have been
relatively high U.K. interest rates and a vague optimism
surrounding the British economy, analysts said.
    "Money seems to be chasing yields," William Byers, of Bear
Stearns, said of the 10-1/2 pct U.K. base lending rate.
    Many analysts are skeptical about further gains in the
pound, on the inference that the Bank of England will seek to
relieve upward pressure on the currency by pushing down
interest rates after the nation's budget is released March 17.
    The budget itself could have an impact, depending on how
well it is received, but analysts say relative interest rates
and oil income remain the main influences on the currency.
    However, the market may be able to absorb lower U.K.
interest rates, as it has done when other countries have cut
their discount rates, and extend the pound's rally, Sloane
said.
    The Canadian dollar has not been rising like the pound, but
Sloane and other analysts cautiously predicted a big move soon.
    The sideways price pattern in the June contract, with
smaller and smaller price ranges, has formed a "bull flag" on
price charts, technically-oriented analysts said.
    "It makes for an explosive type of situation that often
leads to a breakout," in this case to the upside, Sloane said.
    Byers agreed there was potential for the June Canadian
dollar to rally above the 77.00 cent level from the most recent
close at 74.80 cents to the U.S. dollar.
    "At this stage of the game I'd call the market long-term
positive, but for the technical burden of proof you need a
close above (the previous contract high of) 75.25," Byers said.
    As to the traditionally more active currencies, stability
was the catchword and reluctance the watchword among analysts.
    Sloane said it was important that June Swiss francs and
June German marks held above support at 0.6400 and 0.5400,
respectively, closing at 0.6438 and 0.5430.
    Yesterday's rebound showed the market was still very
respectful of the Paris accord, and the threat of central bank
intervention by the G-5 nations plus Canada.
    "We may still probe to see what the parameters are," Byers
said, "but people are very reluctant because they don't know
where the central banks will be (to intervene)."
    Gillard said the mark could drop to a previous price
consolidation area around 0.5250 based on the profoundly
sluggish West German economy, but that he would be a buyer at
that level.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=3666>
Foreign exchange market rumours that the
the Bank of England has been selling sterling to halt its rise
prompted a wary response from dealers who said they saw no
obvious confirmation, market sources said.
    Bank of England officials were not immediately available
for comment. Earlier this week, the Bank sanctioned a cut in
bank interest rates in a surprise move, which aimed at limiting
sterling's rise ahead of the March 17 budget.
    But today the pound has strengthened to 72.7 on its
trade-weighted index from 72.1 last night, though the U.K.
Currency is below its day's high against the dollar.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7429>
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel
today repeated that he was satisfied with the current level of
sterling, both against the dollar and the West German mark.
    Lawson said in a television interview that he did not
regard the pound's present exchange rate was uncomfortably
high.
    "I think it is round about right," he said.
    "I think there was a time that they (British manufacturers)
thought the (exchange) rate was uncomfortably high. But I think
they are very satisfied with the present level."
    "But I have made it absolutely clear that I don't want to
see the pound go through the roof," he added.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8884>
The move by foreign exchange markets to
test the strength of the Paris currency accord has thrown into
question the near-term outlook for sterling, until recently one
of the main beneficiaries of the agreement, analysts said.
    Since the six-nation accord last month, sterling has risen
sharply, adding almost five pct on its trade-weighted index.
    While the accord effectively stifled dollar/yen and
dollar/mark movements, the markets turned their attention to
sterling as foreign investors rushed to take advantage of
relatively high U.K. Interest rates.
    But analysts say the pound has been sidelined by the first
tentative test of the Paris accord seen yesterday.
    The market now looks set sooner or later to push the dollar
down further in a test of the willingness of central banks to
intervene. Analysts say if the banks do not intervene
effectively, the Paris accord could collapse.
    "On balance, sterling would be a net sufferer if G-6
collapses," Phillips and Drew analyst Stephen Lewis said.
    He said sterling would lose out as markets turned their
attention to capital movements whereas previously they had been
restricted to looking only at the interest yield on currencies.
    However, although most analysts and foreign exchange
dealers were forecasting a brief period of consolidation or
even retracement for sterling, none were expecting a very sharp
drop in the U.K. Currency.
    Sterling remained supported by optimism on the U.K.
Political and economic outlook, firmer oil prices and
relatively high interest rates, they said.
    Bullish sentiment on the U.K. Economic outlook has been
running especially high after last week's budget, seen as
popular both with the markets and with British voters.
    Sterling was also supported by signs of a weakening in the
West German and Japanese economies, where growth for 1987 is
trailing behind the three pct forecast for the U.K.
    Recent opinion polls showing Britain's ruling conservative
party ahead of opposition parties in popularity have also
supported the pound.
    In addition, sterling has so far shrugged off two
half-point cuts in U.K. Bank base lending rates in less than
two weeks. A further half-point cut, widely expected in the
next week or so, has already been largely discounted.
    U.K. Base rates, now running at 10 pct, are still
relatively high compared to other western countries, and
analysts said a further base rate cut to 9-1/2 pct was unlikely
to affect sterling.
    Sterling today appeared resilient to the dollar's decline,
dropping only slightly on a cross-rate basis.
    Worries about renewed turbulence in the foreign exchange
markets, however, were reflected in the U.K. Government bond
(gilt) market, where prices dropped by up to 5/16 point.
    Until now foreign investor interest in the gilt market has
been one of the major reasons behind the rise in sterling.
    Dealers said they expected the pound to hold quietly steady
for the next few days while the market awaits further
developments on the dollar and this Thursday's U.K. Current
account figures for February.
    Market forecasts are for a deficit of around 250 mln stg
after January's small surplus.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9848>
The release of U.K. February trade data
showing that the current account surplus was a provisional 376
mln stg, up from a 73 mln surplus in January, has boosted hopes
of an early cut in interest rates, analysts said.
    Market forecasts had been for a worse outcome, with
expectations of a deficit in visible trade averaging about 750
mln stg, against the official figure of 224 mln stg, sharply
narrower than January's 527 mln deficit.
    "The figures are unreservedly good," Chase Manhattan
Securities economist Andrew Wroblewski said.
    Sterling rebounded on the trade figures, reversing a weaker
morning trend, to stand at 72.1 pct of its trade weighted index
against a basket of currencies at midday, unchanged from
yesterday's close but 0.3 points above the 1100 GMT level.
    The market had feared that a deteriorating non-oil trade
pattern would undermine international support for sterling,
which has been the motor behind the recent fall in U.K.
Interest rates. Money market sources said the market had begun
to doubt that a widely expected drop in bank base lending rates
to 9.5 pct from the present 10.0 pct was really on the cards.
    But sentiment now looks to have turned about again.
    There now looks to be no danger that the Chancellor of the
Exchequer Nigel Lawson's forecast of a 1987 current account
deficit of 2.5 billion stg will be exceeded, said Wroblewski.
    Seasonally adjusted figures showed that imports rose in
February to 7.16 billion stg from 6.73 billion in January.
    Exports rose to a record 6.93 billion from 6.20 billion.
    However, Chris Tinker, U.K. Analyst at brokers Phillips and
Drew said that the faster rise in exports than imports would
prove partly aberrational in coming months. He forecast the
Chancellor's Budget tax cuts would increase consumer expediture
on imported goods.
    However, Ian Harwood, economist at Warburg Securities, said
his firm was sharply revising its 1987 current account deficit
forecast in the light of the latest data, cutting one billion
stg off the expected full year total to about 1.75 billion stg.
    He said news of strong growth in exports of non-oil goods
confirmed recent bullish surveys among members of the
Confederation of British Industry.
    The growth in imports appears to be flattening, even if
January's bad weather had curbed consumer spending on overseas
goods and import-intensive stock building among manufactureres,
Harwood said.
    U.K. Government bonds, or gilts, surged by more than 1/2
point on the better-than-expected news, as earlier worries
about the figures evaporated.
    Sterling peaked at a high of 1.6075 dlrs, before settling
to a steady 1.6050 dlrs about 1300 GMT, nearly a cent higher
than the European low of 1.5960.
    However, analysts noted that the turnabout in market
sentiment still looks highly vulnerable to political news.
    Morning weakness in sterling and the gilt market was
largely attributed to a newspaper opinion poll showing that the
Conservative government's support was slipping.
    The Marplan poll, published in "Today," showed Conservative
support had fallen to 36 pct, from 38 pct last month, while the
Alliance of Liberals and Social Democrats had rallied to 31
pct, from 21 pct, to run neck and neck with the Labour Party,
whose own support fell from 38 pct.
    The poll was taken after the Budget, which was greeted
enthusiastically by financial markets but seems to have left
the voters indifferent, political observers said.
    Another regular poll is due tomorrow, and eonomists warn
that today's improved sentiment could be dented if support for
Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher slips again.
    This upsetting of the markets' political perceptions, which
are all but discounting a Conservative victory in the upcoming
general election, made them more sensitive to the trade data,
Harwood said. "The news did come as a very, very substantial
relief," he said.
    However, on the interest rate front, economists caution
that Lawson might be wary of leaving sterling vulnerable by
encouraging another base rate fall. They noted Lawson had
already got an inflation-reducing cut in mortgage rates in
response to lower base rates, so domestic political reasons for
lower rates have been curtailed.
 REUTER
</BODY>
