<BODY DOCID=235>
Indonesia"s agriculture sector will grow
by just 1.0 pct in calendar 1987, against an estimated 2.4 pct
in 1986 as the production of some commodities stagnates or
declines, the U.S. Embassy said in a report.
    Production of Indonesia"s staple food, rice, is forecast to
fall to around 26.3 mln tonnes from an embassy estimate of
26.58 mln tonnes in 1986, according to the annual report on
Indonesia"s agricultural performance.
    The government officially estimates 1986 rice production at
26.7 mln tonnes, with a forecast 27.3 mln tonnes output in
1987.
    The report says wheat imports are likely to fall to 1.5 mln
tonnes in calendar 1987 from 1.69 mln tonnes in 1986 because of
a drawdown on stocks.
    "Growth prospects for agriculture in 1987 do not look
promising as rice production is forecast to decline and the
production of sugarcane, rubber and copra show little or no
gain," the report says.
    "The modest overall increase which is expected will be due
to significant gains in production of corn soybeans, palm oil
and palm kernels."
    Constraints to significant overall increases in
agricultural output include a shortage of disease resistant
seeds, limited fertile land, insect pests and a reluctance by
farmers to shift from rice production to other crops, the
report underlines.
    The fall in rice production is caused by an outbreak of
pests known as "wereng" or brown plant hoppers in 1986 which
largely offset gains in yields.
    The outbreak has forced the government to ban the use of 57
insecticides on rice because it was believed the wereng are now
resistant to these varieties, and to use lower-yielding, more
resistant rice types.
    The government is depending on increased production of
export commodities such as coffee, tea, rubber, plywood and
palm oil to offset revenue losses brought on by falling crude
oil prices.
    Palm oil production is expected to increase by over 7.0 pct
in 1987 to 1.45 mln tonnes from 1.35 mln, with exports rising
to an estimated 720,000 tonnes from 695,000 tonnes in 1986, the
report says.
    But while production of soybeans in 1987/88 (Oct-Sept) will
rise to 1.075 mln tonnes from 980,000 in 1986/87, imports will
also rise to supply a new soybean crushing plant.
    The report says that imports of wheat, soybeans, soybean
meal and cotton are not likely to decline as a result of last
September"s 31 pct devaluation of the rupiah because of a rise
in domestic demand.
    The report said that Indonesia"s overall economic
performance in calendar 1986 was about zero or even a slight
negative growth rate, the lowest rate of growth since the
mid-1960s. It compares with 1.9 pct growth in 1985 and 6.7 pct
in 1984.
    The dramatic fall in oil prices last year was responsible
for the slump.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=275>
Indonesia's exports of tea and cocoa
will continue to rise in calendar 1987 but coffee exports are
forecast to dip slightly in 1987/88 (April-March) as the
government tries to improve quality, the U.S. Embassy said.
    The embassy's annual report on Indonesian agriculture
forecast coffee output in 1986/87 would be 5.77 mln bags of 60
kilograms each. That is slightly less than the 5.8 mln bags
produced in 1985/86.
    In 1987/88 coffee production is forecast to rise again to
5.8 mln bags, but exports to dip to 4.8 mln from around 5.0 mln
in 1986/87. Exports in 1985/86 were 4.67 mln bags.
    The embassy report says coffee stocks will rise to 1.3 mln
tonnes in 1987/88 from 1.15 mln in 1986/87. It bases this on a
fall in exports as a result of the "probable" re-introduction of
quotas by the International Coffee Organisation.
    Cocoa production and exports are forecast to rise steadily
as the government develops cocoa plantations. Production of
cocoa in Indonesia increased to 32,378 tonnes in calendar 1985
from 10,284 tonnes in 1980. It is projected by the government
to rise to more than 50,000 tonnes by 1988.
    Production in 1986 is estimated by the embassy at 35,000
tonnes, as against 38,000 tonnes in 1987.
    The report forecasts cocoa exports to rise to 35,000 tonnes
this year, from 33,000 tonnes in 1986 and 31,000 in 1985.
    The Netherlands is at present the biggest importer of
Indonesian cocoa beans.
    The report forecasts that in calendar 1987, Indonesia's CTC
(crushed, torn and curled) tea exports will increase
significantly with the coming on stream of at least eight new
CTC processing plants.
    Indonesia plans to diversify its tea products by producing
more CTC tea, the main component of tea bags.
    Production of black and green teas is forecast in the
embassy report to rise to 125,000 tonnes in calendar 1987 from
123,000 tonnes in 1986.
    Exports of these teas are likely to rise to 95,000 tonnes
in 1987 from 85,000 in 1986 and around 90,000 in 1985.
    The embassy noted the ministry of trade tightened quality
controls on tea in October 1986 in an effort to become more
competititve in the world market.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10268>
India is searching for non-communist
countertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit and
conserve foreign exchange.
    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering and
electronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, are
all on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,
chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.
    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in
1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading
Corp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).
    "The two state trading corporations are free to use their
buying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indian
exports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding that
private firms are excluded from countertrading.
    One trade source said India has targetted countries that
depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign
imports.
    However, countertrade deals still make up only a small part
of India's total trading and are likely to account for less
than eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade
during the nine months ended December, the sources said.
    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65
billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,
against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.
    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern
Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.
    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of
agricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crude
oil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87,
against three billion in 1985/86.
    Indian countertrade, which is being promoted mainly to help
narrow the country's large trade deficit, is still
insignificant compared with agreements reached by Indonesia,
Venezuela and Brazil, the trade sources said.
    The trade deficit, which hit an estimated record 6.96
billion dlrs in 1985/86, is expected to decline to 5.6 billion
in the current fiscal year.
    But the push to include non-communist countries in
countertrade is also due to other factors, including the slow
growth of foreign reserves, a tight debt repayment schedule,
shrinking aid and trade protectionism, businessmen said.
    One source said India is showing more dynamism in promoting
countertrade deals than in the past, when the deals were made
discreetly because they break GATT rules. As a member of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), India cannot
officially support bartering.
    The MMTC's recent countertrade deals include iron ore
exports to Yugoslavia for steel structures and rails.
    "MMTC's recent global tenders now include a clause that
preference will be given to parties who accept payment in kind
for goods and services sold to India," a trade official said,
adding that the policy remains flexible.
    "We also take into account other factors such as prices at
which the goods and services are offered to India," the trade
official said.
    Early this year the commerce ministry quietly told foreign
companies interested in selling aircraft, ships, drilling rigs
and railway equipment to India that they stood a better chance
if they bought Indian goods or services in return, the trade
sources said.
    Illustrating the point, the official said a South Korean
firm recently agreed to sell a drilling platform worth 40 mln
dlrs to the state-run Oil and Natural Gas Commission.
    In return, the South Koreans gave a verbal assurance to buy
Indian goods worth 10 pct of the contract, against the 25 pct
sought by New Delhi, the trade official said.
    "We selected the Korean firm because its bid was the lowest,"
he added.
    Countertrade is helping African countries short of foreign
currency to import goods. India has signed a trade protocol to
buy up to 15,000 tonnes of asbestos fibre from Zimbabwe in
exchange for Indian goods, including jute bags and cars.
    But despite India's new drive, countertrade has some
inherent problems, they added.
    "It is not always easy to meet the basic requirement that
the trade should always be balanced," one trade source said. "The
other problem is it is often difficult to supply or buy
commodities which the other party wants."
    Another added, "Barter is also restrictive. We look upon it
as a temporary measure to get over the current balance of
payments difficulty.
    "This is why countertrade has not been made a law in India.
It does not even figure in the country's foreign trade policy."
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10406>
India is searching for non-communist
countertrade partners to help it cut its trade deficit and
conserve foreign exchange.
    Wheat, tobacco, tea, coffee, jute, engineering and
electronic goods, as well as minerals including iron ore, are
all on offer in return for crude oil, petroleum products,
chemicals, steel and machinery, trade sources told Reuters.
    Most of the impetus behind countertrade, which began in
1984, comes from two state trading firms -- the State Trading
Corp (STC) and the Minerals and Metals Trading Corp (MMTC).
    "The two state trading corporations are free to use their
buying power in respect to bulk commodities to promote Indian
exports," a commerce ministry spokeswoman said, adding that
private firms are excluded from countertrading.
    One trade source said India has targetted countries that
depend on an Indian domestic market recently opened to foreign
imports. But countertrade deals still make up only a small part
of India's total trading and are likely to account for less
than eight pct of the estimated 18.53 billion dlrs in trade
during the nine months ended December, the sources said.
    Countertrade accounted for just five pct of India's 25.65
billion dlrs in trade during fiscal 1985/86 ended March,
against almost nothing in 1984/85, official figures show.
    However, the figures exclude exchanges with the Eastern
Bloc paid in non-convertible Indian rupees, the sources said.
    Total trade with the Soviet Union, involving swaps of
agricultural produce and textiles for Soviet arms and crude
oil, is estimated at 3.04 billion dlrs in fiscal 1986/87.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12754>
Pakistan's decision to suspend tea
import licences will hurt Kenyan tea exports in the short term
while exporters seek new markets, sources close to Nairobi
broking houses and exporters said.
    Broking house officials in the Sri Lankan capital Colombo
yesterday told Reuters Pakistan had suspended the licences in
order to link tea imports to Pakistani exports.
    The latest available figures show that Kenyan exports to
Pakistan, mainly tea, were worth 75 mln dlrs in 1985, while
imports from Pakistan amounted to only 4.8 mln dlrs. Kenya
provides over 50 pct of Pakistan's tea imports.
    The Nairobi sources said the Pakistani decision did not
come as a surprise as Pakistan had been complaining of the
trade imbalance for some time.
    "We are very disappointed that Pakistan took such action ...
(it) will certainly hurt Kenya's tea industry in the short term
as Pakistan is Kenya's second largest market," a source at one
broking house told Reuters.
    One tea broker said Pakistan's move had already affected
Kenya's tea trade and was largely responsible for an average
fall of two shillings a kilo at the export auction in Mombasa
last Monday.
    "The trend is likely to continue until other countries
replace Pakistan, which usually buys all qualities of our tea,"
he added.
    Kenya has for a long time relied on Britain, Pakistan,
Egypt and, to a lesser extent the United States, as major
markets for its tea, the sources added.
    Small-scale exporters who export mainly to Pakistan would
be worst hit by the Pakistani move as it would take them longer
to find new outlets, they said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=12907>
Abnormally high levels of radiation were
found in Soviet tea and hazelnuts more than nine months after
the Chernobyl nuclear accident, West German residents in Moscow
were advised this week.
    In a letter to the West German community here, Ambassador
Joerg Kastl said laboratory tests on food samples bought in
Moscow in February had shown elevated levels of caesium-134 and
-137 in tea from Azerbaijan and Ukrainian hazelnuts.
    Other food samples sent for testing at Cologne University,
including honey, fruit, vegetables, pork, milk and butter, were
found to be free of radiation, it said.
    Data in the letter showed the tea and hazelnuts contained
caesium levels far in excess of ceilings recommended by the
United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO).
    The letter said people who had consumed the tea faced no
particular health danger as most of the caesium remained in the
tea leaves, but it warned against eating the hazelnuts.
    The products sent for testing were bought in state shops
and private farmers' markets in Moscow, it added. Other Western
embassies in Moscow said they had discontinued laboratory
testing of Soviet food late last year because no abnormal
radiation levels were detected.
    "We didn't find anything so we stopped doing it," a U.S.
Embassy spokesman said.
    A British spokesman said radiation-monitoring equipment
remained in the embassy waiting room for British residents in
Moscow who wanted to check their food, but laboratory tests had
not been conducted for several months.
    "Earlier we sent some food back to Britain as a
precautionary measure, but we stopped in the absence of any
alarming signals," he said. "If the tests had shown abnormal
readings, they would have been resumed."
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7545>
Three geographically diverse droughts
in Asia are being linked by some scientists to a
reintensification of the complex and little-understood El Nino
weather pattern, &lt;Accu-Weather Inc>, a commercial weather
forecasting service, said.
    Rice and wheat farmers in China, wheat and sugarcane
growers in Australia and tea planters in Sri Lanka all face
serious losses to their respective harvests unless rains arrive
in time to break the droughts, offical reports, government
officials and meteorologists said.
    Wen Wei Po, a Hong Kong daily with close Peking links, said
the drought is the worst in over 20 years and some provinces
have been without adequate rainfall for more than seven months.
    Rice planting is threatened in eight provinces, it added.
    Rainfall in the key farming provinces of Henan and Sichuan
was 70 pct below average during February, the lowest figure for
over 20 years, the paper said.
    The dry weather has cut stored water volumes by over 20 pct
compared with last March and lowered the water levels of many
rivers, it added.
    This has resulted in reduced hydro-electric power, causing
shortages to industry and households. The upper reaches of the
Yangtze are at their lowest levels in a century, causing many
ships to run aground, Wen Wei Po said.
    Unusually high temperatures have also been reported across
China, media reports said. The People's Daily said Sichuan has
recorded temperatures three degrees Celsius higher than average
since early February.
    The New China News Agency said the average December
temperature in Harbin in the northeast was six degrees higher
than last December and 14 degrees higher than December 1984.
    Severe drought is affecting about one-third of Sri Lanka
and threatens to reduce the country's tea crop, Ministry of
Plantation Industries officials told Reuters
    In Australia, concern is growing about below-average
rainfall levels in parts of the sugarcane belt along the
Queensland coast and in Western Australia's wheat belt, local
Meteorological Bureau officials said.
    For many farmers and government officials the fear is that
while the present low rainfall does not yet pose a major
threat, the prospect of a dry autumn/winter season when the
wheat crop is in its early stages certainly does, they added.
    Concern is heightened by the memory of the 1982/83 drought
which devastated the wheat crop and coincided with the
occurrence of the barely understood weather phenomenon known as
El Nino, they said.
    Although meteorologists are cautious about linking the
Asia-Pacific region's disrupted weather patterns to any single
cause, El Nino's role is being closely studied, they said.
    Accu-Weather Inc, which specialises in providing data for
agriculture and shipping interests, said each El Nino 'event'
was unique.
    The El Nino does not always produce the same effects and
the present occurrence is much less pronounced than the last
major event in 1982/83, it said.
    El Nino, Spanish for "Christ Child" because it appears around
Christmas, is formed by the action of warm air, bearing clouds
and rain, shifting from the Indonesian archipelago to the coast
of Peru, where it mingles with the cold waters associated with
the Peru current and returns across the Pacific as the trade
winds, meteorologists said.
    The winds, strengthened by El Nino's "pump" effect, raise the
sea level off Australia and Indonesia, they said.
    When the winds drop, the ocean, seeking equilibrium, sends
a surge of warmer water back across the Pacific where it
collides with the cold seas off Peru, they said.
    One effect of this heat exchange is to deflect the
rain-bearing clouds away from Australia and Indonesia into the
Pacific, where they further disrupt other weather patterns.
    The prospects for an end to the droughts vary, Accu-Weather
said.
    China, where the affected areas have received between 40
and 75 pct of normal rainfall, will have to wait for the
May-September rains, it said.
    The May-September rains normally provide the
drought-striken areas with 80 pct of annual rainfall.
    In Australia, areas of Queensland's coastal strip have
received less than half the normal rainfall during the current
wet season, but prospects for increased rains are diminishing
as the rainy season draws to an end.
    In Sri Lanka, the drought has come when rainfall should be
at its maximum for the year. The year's secondary rains usually
occur between April and June, although it is not possible at
this stage to forecast whether they will arrive as usual.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9153>
Vietnam will resettle 300,000 people on
state farms known as new economic zones in 1987, to create jobs
and grow more high-value export crops, the communist party
newspaper Nhan Dan said.
    Yesterday's edition, received here today, said Vietnam
would invest one billion dong, including the costs of
relocation, in 272 new economic zones. About one third of that
sum would be spent on export crops such as coffee, tea, rubber
and pepper in the Central Highlands, it said.
    Since 1975, Vietnam has resettled about three million
people from cities and crowded river deltas to the zones.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=9327>
Floods and avalanches killed 110 people
and caused around 350 mln roubles worth of damage in the
southern Soviet republic of Georgia earlier this year, the
government daily Izvestia said.
    Some 80,000 hectares of agricultural land and gardens had
been inundated, damaging tea plantations and orange groves, the
newspaper said. It added that spring sowing in southern parts
of the country was some two weeks behind schedule because of
the late thaw but gave no precise crop estimates.
    In the most detailed report to date on the heavy snows in
January and floods in February, Izvestia said 8,200 people had
been evacuated from mountain areas, 4,500 houses had been
damaged and hundreds of kilometres of roads and power lines had
been destroyed.
    A separate article in the daily warned that a sudden thaw
was expected shortly in the Ukraine and southern parts of
Russia, which experienced record snows this winter.
    Preventive measures have already been taken in some areas
including the evacuation of cattle.
 Reuter
</BODY>
