<BODY DOCID=311>
Mine and industry officials from
most member states of the Association of Tin Producing
Countries (ATPC) say they have found ways to limit group
exports to 96,000 tonnes in the year started March 1, according
to views polled by Reuter correspondents.
    The plan to curb exports, agreed in January, is aimed at
cutting the world surplus to 50,000 tonnes from 70,000 now and
boosting prices to about 19 ringgit a kilo from just over 16.
    Members of the seven-member Kuala Lumpur-based ATPC account
for some 65 pct of the world's tin output.
    Under the ATPC plan, Malaysia has been allocated an export
quota of 28,526 tonnes, Indonesia 24,516, Thailand 19,000,
Bolivia 13,761, Zaire 1,736 and Nigeria 1,461.
    Australia has said it is not setting any export quota.
However, the tonnage allocated to it, 7,000 tonnes, is roughly
equal to its expected output this year.
    Comment from officials in Zaire was unavailable.
    Mine officials in Malaysia, the world's leading producer,
said only 188 mines will be allowed to operate to ensure that
output is limited to around 31,500 tonnes in the year started
March 1.
    Chief Inspector of Mines Redzuan Sumun told Reuters that
excess output of some 3,000 tonnes after exports of 28,500 in
the one-year quota period would be kept in the national stock.
    Mine owners in Malaysia have welcomed the ATPC export curb
and asked the government not to issue new mining licences. More
than 100 applications for licences are pending.
    Redzuan said the Mines Department would approve new mining
licences only if a six-month review of production trends showed
that local mines were not overproducing.
    ATPC chairman and Indonesia's Mining and Energy Minister
Subroto has pledged his country's support for the export curb.
    A spokesman for the state-owned tin mining company PT
Tambang Timah told Reuters it would be easy for Indonesia to
stick to an export quota of 24,516 tonnes because this was
close to exports in calendar 1986 of 24,636.
    In Bangkok, Thai Industry Minister Pramual Sabhavasu said
Thailand would keep to its 19,000 tonne quota and added this
would not cause the local industry hardship at current prices.
    To insure adherence, the industry ministry and sole tin
exporter Thailand Smelting and Refining Co would encourage
bigger stockpiles, and income tax exemptions would be
permitted, he said.
    The Thai Mineral Resources Department is expected to
disallow new tin mines opening this year to prevent excessive
production, industry sources said.
    But Mining Industry Council President Dam Teutong told
Reuters that if the tin price rose above 18 ringgit a kilo,
Thai miners would press for the opening of more new mines.
    Thailand exported 18,367 tonnes in 1986, up from 17,359 in
1985, Pramual said.
    Bolivia said it expects to export less tin this year than
its allocated 13,761 tonne quota.
    Mining Minister Jaimie Villalobos told Reuters in La Paz
that Bolivia expected to export about 9,000 tonnes of tin in
calendar 1987.
    He said this was due to the sacking after the tin crisis of
October 1985 of about 20,000 of the 28,000 workers at the state
mining company Comibol, which produces more than 80 pct of
Bolivia's total exports.
    He said there were risks in the ATPC plan to cut exports
but added he was confident the goals set by the plan would be
achieved. He did not elaborate.
    Mines, Power and Steel Minister Bunu Sheriff Musa said in
Lagos that Nigeria would have no difficulty keeping within its
ATPC quota of 1,461 tonnes because its metals output had
declined due to poor demand and high production costs.
    Industry sources told Reuters that Nigeria's output was
less than 1,000 tonnes last year.
    ATPC officials said they would monitor member countries'
export figures every three months using customs documents and
make projections from such data to see if quotas were likely to
be breached within the year-long quota period.
    The ATPC officials said members that appeared likely to
breach their quotas would be told to take remedial measures.
    They added that if member countries were unable to fulfil
their quotas their extra tonnage would be reallocated to other
members at the ATPC's discretion.
    The ATPC would have produced and exported an estimated
106,000 tonnes of tin in 1987 without the plan.
    Non-members Brazil and China have pledged to cooperate with
the ATPC and limit their exports to 21,000 and 7,000 tonnes
respectively during the quota period.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=688>
U.S. tin disposals should have little
effect on an agreement reached last weekend by tin producing
countries to limit group exports to 96,000 tonnes in the year
started March 1, a government official said.
    The agreement by the seven-member Association of Tin
Producing Countries (ATPC) aimed to cut the world surplus and
boost prices. Following the accord, ATPC Chairman Subroto
appealed to the United States to restrict its tin releases from
its strategic stockpile.
    "We don't think that (the U.S. government) has a large
influence in the (tin) market at this stage of the game," said
Thomas O'Donnell, Director of International Commodities at the
State Department. Last year the United States released about
4,900 tonnes of tin to two ferroalloy firms.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=908>
Zaire agreed to limit its tin
exports to 1,736 tonnes for 12 months from March 1 in line with
an Association of Tin Producing Countries (ATPC) plan to curb
exports, the ATPC said.
    ATPC Executive Director Victor Siaahan told Reuters he
received a telex from Zaire indicating its willingess to take
part in the plan to limit total ATPC exports to 96,000 tonnes
for a year from March 1.
    Siaahan said Zaire is expected to produce 1,900 tonnes of
tin in calendar 1987, and that in 1986 its output and exports
were about 1,200 tonnes.
    The ATPC hopes to cut the 70,000-tonne world surplus by
20,000 tonnes and boost prices.
    All ATPC members except Zaire and Australia recently agreed
to adhere to the export quotas allocated them under the plan.
Australia said its quota of 7,000 tonnes was roughly equal to
its expected output this year.
    The ATPC consists of Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand,
Bolivia, Australia, Nigeria and Zaire.
    China and Bolivia, important producers of tin, are not
members.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=1929>
Thailand exported 1,816 tonnes of tin
metal in January, up from 1,731 in December and 1,330 a year
ago, the Mineral Resources Department said.
    It said major buyers last month were Singapore, Japan,
Britain, the Netherlands, Malaysia and the U.S.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=10332>
Thailand exported 1,120 tonnes of tin
metal in February, down from 1,816 tonnes the previous month
and 2,140 tonnes a year ago, the Mineral Resources Department
said.
    It said major buyers last month were Britain, Japan, the
Netherlands, West Germany and the U.S.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11224>
Consuming countries, chastened by the
collapse of International Tin Council (ITC) price support
operations in 1985, are insisting more than ever before that
commodity pacts reflect the reality of the markets they are
serving, a Reuter survey showed.
    They want price ranges to be more responsive to market
trends - to avoid overstimulating output and straining the
accords' support operations - and intervention rules that avoid
the risk of exports by non-members undermining the pacts.
Consumers and producers, mindful of ITC buffer stock losses,
have also sought strict conditions for buffer operations.
    Importers and some key exporting countries have shunned a
generalised approach to commodity price stabilisation and
prefer to assess each commodity case by case, the survey
showed.
    The International Cocoa Organization (ICCO) last week set
precise limits on what the Buffer Stock Manager (BSM) could do
under the new agreement. It imposed daily and weekly purchase
limits, prohibited the BSM from operating on futures markets
and stipulated, after consumer insistence, that up to 15 pct of
total buffer stock purchases could be of non-member cocoa. This
will help prevent lower quality cocoa from Malaysia, the
world's fourth largest producer, undermining the market.
    The cocoa pact establishes precise differentials the Buffer
Stock Manager must use when purchasing varying grades.
    A new International Natural Rubber Agreement (INRA) was
adopted earlier this month in Geneva. Importing and exporting
countries agreed several changes to make the reference price
more responsive to market trends and they eliminated provisions
under which the buffer stock could borrow from banks to finance
operations. Direct cash contributions from members will fund
buffer stock purchases. Bank financing was a particular feature
of the failed ITC buffer stock which suffered losses running
into hundreds of millions of sterling. Legal wrangles continue.
    Recent International Coffee Organization (ICO) negotiations
in London exemplified the degree to which consumers insist that
agreements reflect market reality, commodity analysts said.
    Consumers and a small group of producers argued that
"objective criteria" should be used to define export quota
shares, which would have meant a reduction in the share of
Brazil, the world's leading producer. Brazil wanted to maintain
its previous quota share of 30 pct. The talks broke down and,
although an ICO executive board meeting starts in London today,
delegates and trade sources see chances of any near term
negotiations on export quota distribution as remote.
    International agreements exist for sugar and wheat. These
do not have any economic clauses but provide a forum for
discussions on possible future economic agreements, collect
statistics and draw up market analyses. Analysts said
differences between sugar exporting countries have held up any
progress towards an accord with economic teeth, while sheer
competition between major exporters amid a world grain glut
militate against any pact with economic provisions for wheat.
    An alternative focus for commodity discussions are
international study groups, made up of governments with advice
from industry, such as those for lead and zinc and rubber.
    The U.N. Common fund for commodities, with a planned
directly contributed capital of 470 mln dlrs, has failed to
become operational because neither the U.S. Nor the Soviet
Union has ratified it. U.S. Officials in Washington said the
U.S. Doubts the fund would be able to fulfil its objectives,
citing the lack of widespread support.
    U.S. Officials in Washington and Malaysian officials in
Kuala Lumpur expressed a policy of looking at each commodity
pact case by case. U.S. Officials said it has been willing to
study individual cases for economically sound, market-oriented
commodity accords balancing producer and consumer interests.
    "We see little to be gained by attempting to increase the
price of a commodity whose long-term trend is downward,"
official Administration policy states. The U.S. Currently
belongs to only two international commodity agreements that
have economic clauses - the International Coffee Agreement
(ICA) and INRA - but it is also a member of the sugar and wheat
pacts.
    The U.S. Did not join the International Cocoa Agreement
because it considered its proposed price ranges unrealistic and
not designed to protect the interests of consuming countries,
the State Department said. U.S. Officials singled out the INRA
as the one commodity agreement that seems to be working.
    U.S. Negotiators were successful in getting other members
of the pact to agree that the price review and adjustment
mechanism of the rubber agreement would accurately reflect
market trends and also to continue the accord as a market
oriented agreement, U.S. Officials said.
    Canadian officials in Ottawa also said they have
consistently tried to look at membership of commodity pacts on
the merits of each case. Malaysian Primary Industries Minister
Lim Keng Yaik told Reuters in Kuala Lumpur his country, the
world's top producer of rubber, tin and palm oil, decides its
participation in international commodity pacts case by case.
    Malaysia is a member of the Association of Tin Producing
Countries (ATPC) which produce 65 pct of world tin. The ATPC
launched a plan to limit member tin exports to 96,000 tonnes
for a year from March to cut the tin surplus to 50,000 from
70,000.
    Economist in the West German Ministry of Agriculture and
delegate to cocoa, wheat and sugar agreements Peter Baron told
Reuters in London, "Agreements with economic clauses to
stabilise prices could function if fixed price ranges were
close to market reality, if there was full participation by
producers and consumers, and if participants were prepared to
take their obligations in the framework of the agreement
seriously."
    But Baron added, "No real sanctions are available for a
country that doesn't stick to its obligations...The German
approach is sceptical. We don't think agreements are the best
instrument to help developing countries. They were never meant
to be a vehicle for the transfer of resources and that is how
developing countries often interpret them."
    Traditionally Britain has always been supportive of
commodity agreements, reflecting its strong links with Third
World producing countries. But recently demands for more
stringent and justifiable pacts with emphasis placed on the
need for "intellectual honesty" and "objective criteria" have
grown.
    British officials stress the need for commodity pacts to be
a two way partnership in trade rather than a disguise for aid.
    It is now seen as essential that any pacts involving direct
market participation through a buffer stock have a high degree
of transparency and do not contain the risk of open-ended
borrowing that occurred in the tin pact, they said. U.K.
Delegates talk of stabilisation and the need for prices to
reflect changes in market structure and price trends rather
than dictate what prices should be.
    A Foreign Ministry official in Tokyo said Japan urges price
realism in commodity pacts, adding high prices inflate supply.
    A government spokesman in Paris said France is favourable
to commodity pacts. France, a large consumer and producer of
sugar, favours a sugar pact as long as it reflects the real
market situation, particularly regarding stocks.
    Indonesia's Foreign Minister Mochtar Kusumaatmadja told
Reuters in Jakarta: "These agreements can work as long as the
problems are cyclical..But it's another matter when there are
structural problems..But we are still committed to commodity
agreements as an act of faith." Nicaraguan External Trade
Minister Alejandro Martinez Cuenca said in London producers
cannot afford not to give their backing to commodity
agreements.
    "The political will is not there on the part of some
consumers to make agreements work," Martinez Cuenca said.
    The head of the economics department in the Brazilian
Foreign Ministry, Sebastiao do Rego Barros, told Reuters an
agreement can be successful if it keeps a link with market
reality. If you have an agreement such as coffee with a system
of quotas, with a link between prices practised inside the pact
and actual market prices, it can work. UNCTAD spokesman Graham
Shanley said consuming countries realise steady export earnings
enhance developing countries' ability to service debt and mean
greater demand for industrialised nations' capital goods.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=11801>
Malaysian miners criticised the
U.S. For violating an agreement with Southeast Asian producers
by selling more stockpiled tin in 1986 than agreed.
    The U.S. General Services Administration sold 5,490 tonnes
of tin in 1986, well above an agreed upon annual limit of 3,000
tonnes, the States of Malaya Chamber of Mines said.
    In its latest annual report, it said the U.S. Had promised
to limit sales of tin in a memorandum of understanding signed
with the six-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations
(ASEAN) in December 1983.
    "The U.S. Appears to have lost sight of the U.S./ASEAN
Memorandum of Understanding," the Chamber said.
    The Chamber estimated the U.S. Strategic stockpile held
180,444 tonnes of tin in December 1986, 137,744 tonnes in
excess of of its original stockpile goal of 42,700.
    The main ASEAN tin producers are Malaysia, Indonesia and
Thailand, which produce the bulk of the world's tin.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=13185>
The United States defended its sales
of stockpiled tin in 1986 in reaction to criticism from
Malaysian miners who have said it violated an agreement with
southeast Asian producers.
    "The United States has continued to abide by the spirit of
the memorandum of understanding and has consulted with the
ASEAN states on GSA tin disposals," a State Department spokesman
said in a statement.
    "The views of the ASEAN governments have been taken into
account in determining disposal levels," the statement said.
    The United States and the ASEAN countries signed a
memorandum of understanding concerning tin disposals by the
U.S. General Services Administration (GSA) in December 1983.
    In its latest annual report, the States of Malaya Chamber
of Mines said the GSA sold 5,490 tonnes of tin in 1986, well
above an agreed upon annual limit of 3,000 tonnes. "The United
States appears to have lost sight of the U.S./ASEAN Memorandum
of Understanding," it said.
    The State Department statement said GSA tin disposals
increased in calendar year 1986 due to changed market
conditions. During the first quarter of calendar year 1987,
they have been running at a lower rate compared to 1986.
    The spokesman declined to say how much stockpiled tin the
GSA sold last year, however.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=4122>
The tin price is likely to rise to
20 ringgit a kilo this year because of the producers' accord on
export quotas and the reluctance of brokers and banks to sell
the metal at lower prices, a Malaysian government bulletin
said.
    The Malaysian Tin bulletin said it is in producers'
interest to keep to their quotas to limit total exports to
90,000 tonnes and to gradually deplete the 80,000 tonnes
overhang.
    It said consumption by industrialised countries should stay
at 160,000 tonnes and that International Tin Council creditors
and brokers are not likely to dump their stocks excessively
unless there is a large and abrupt price jump.
    The continued depreciation of the dollar could also help
push up the price of tin, the bulletin said.
    A depreciation of the dollar means the depreciation of the
ringgit which is closely pegged to it, making the price of tin
cheaper in sterling terms, it added.
    "Even in the absence of economic rationale in the tin
market, psychological optimism alone is sufficient to secure a
price recovery of up to 20 ringgit per kilo," the bulletin said.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=6934>
About 9,000 miners employed by the
state corporation Comibol went on hunger strike to press for
higher wages, a miners union spokesman said.
     Victor Lopez, executive secretary of the miners union,
told a news conference the strikers began to fast in the major
tin mining districts of oruro and potosi and the action would
spread tomorrow to la paz and other areas.
     The government has charged that the strike by the miners
union, crippled by massive layoffs, is part of a left-wing
destabilisation plan to coincide with the visit of West German
president Richard von Weizsaecker, who arrives on a four-day
official tour on Friday.
     But miners union chief Simon Reyes told reporters the
strike had nothing to do with subversion and was to press for
more government investment in Comibol.
     The government of president Victor Paz Estenssoro has
streamlined the deficit-ridden state mining corporation laying
off about 20,000 miners, two-thirds of the workforce, following
a collapse of the international tin price in 1985.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7533>
About 9,000 miners employed by the
state corporation, Comibol, declared a general strike as from
midnight (0400 gmt) to press for higher salaries, a statement
by the federation for Bolivian mine workers said.
     It said the strike was called to defend the nationalised
mining industry. The miners were willing to negotiate with the
government of President Victor Paz Estenssoro, but only if it
showed an intention to meet the strikers' demands.
     The government said the strike was designed to cause it
embarrassment during the four-day visit of West German
President Richard Von Weizsaecker, which starts on Friday.
    The miners statement said police had violently evicted
Comibol office workers in the city of Oruro after they began a
hunger strike yesterday.
    The government has sacked about 20,000 miners from its
deficit-ridden corporation since the collapse in the
international price of tin. The lay-offs represent about
two-thirds of the original workforce.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7592>
About 9,000 miners employed by the
state corporation, Comibol, declared a general strike as from
midnight (0400 gmt) to press for higher salaries, a statement
by the federation for Bolivian mine workers said.
     It said the strike was called to defend the nationalised
mining industry. The miners were willing to negotiate with the
government of President Victor Paz Estenssoro, but only if it
showed an intention to meet the strikers' demands.
     The government said the strike was designed to cause it
embarrassment during the four-day visit of West German
President Richard Von Weizsaecker, which starts on Friday.
    The miners statement said police had violently evicted
Comibol office workers in the city of Oruro after they began a
hunger strike yesterday.
    The government has sacked about 20,000 miners from its
deficit-ridden corporation since the collapse in the
international price of tin. The lay-offs represent about
two-thirds of the original workforce.
 REUTER
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=7877>
A strike by 9,000 miners employed by the
state corporation Comibol has paralysed tin production in the
major centers of Huanuni, Corocoro, Siglo, Catavi and Colquiri,
the Conflicts Secretary of the Bolivian Miners Federation,
Cristobal Aranibar, told Reuters.
     The strike began at midnight to press demands for higher
wages and more funds for the nationalised mining industry.
     The miners federation left the door open to negotiations
with the government but "only if the authorities show their
intention to find solution to our demands", Aranibar said.
    The government of president Victor Paz Estenssoro, faced
with mounting social unrest against its economic policies, has
said the miners strike was part of a campaign to discredit it
during the visit of West German president, Richard von
Weizsaecker, who arrives today for a four-day official visit.
    The government froze salaries as part of its efforts to
pull Bolivia out of a deep economic crisis. According to
central bank forecasts inflation will reach an annual 10 pct
rate versus up to 20,000 pct in 1985.
     In addition to the miners' strike, about 1,000 railway
factory workers of the bolivian labour organization (COB) began
a second day of a hunger strike in the country's main cities to
press for substantial wage increases, a union leader said.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8055>
Bolivia, once Latin America's most
delinquent debtor, is preparing for a second International
Monetary Fund agreement after an economic stabilisation program
has effectively slowed inflation and reduced public spending.
    A fund spokesman said an IMF team would visit La Paz
shortly to discuss terms of the new agreement.
    He said the IMF had disbursed 130 mln dlrs here and 20 mln
dlrs are pending under the one year agreement that ends this
month. The accord provided for a stand-by loan, a compensatory
financing facility and a structural adjustment facility.
    The spokesman said that if the agreement is renewed,
Bolivia can expect a further 60-mln-dlr stand-by loan over the
next 12 months.
    Bolivia's agreement with the IMF, its first since 1980,
opened the door to rescheduling negotiations with the Paris
Club and Argentina and Brazil, which hold 2.5 billion dlrs of
Bolivia's 4.0-billion-dlr foreign debt.
    Central Bank President Javier Nogales told Reuters the
negotiations with the Paris Club, which have yet to be
finalised, had been extremely successful.
    Nogales said the Paris Club had agreed to reschedule
Bolivia's debt over 10 years with five to six years grace and
had waived all interest payments until the end of 1988.
    Bilateral discussions on interest rates continue, he said.
    Nogales said Bolivia was expecting some 400 mln dlrs in
disbursements this year from lender countries and international
agencies, including the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank, although diplomatic and banking sources put
the figure at closer to 300 mln dlrs.
    Nogales said Bolivia's net international reserves are
around 250 mln dlrs, up from one mln dlrs when President Ictor
Paz Estenssoro took office in august 1985. Nogales said the
capital flow on Bolivia's debt servicing versus new credits had
changed from a net outflow of 200 mln dlrs in 1985 to a net
inflow of 130 mln dlrs in 1986.
    Bolivia's return from the financial wilderness follows paz
estenssoro's economic stabilisation program. He inherited
inflation of 23,000 pct a year, state enterprises that were
losing hundreds of mlns of dlrs and a currency that traded on
the black market at up to 16 times its official rate.
    Paz estenssoro froze public sector wages, set a market-
related rate for the peso, introduced tax reforms and laid off
thousands of workers in state corporations.
    Inflation has been running at 10 pct a year for the past
six months, according to the Central Bank, and the government 
expects the economy to grow three pct this year after a 14 pct
contraction over the last six years.
    The government is also proposing a novel solution to its
debt to commercial banks, some 900 mln dlrs, on which interest
has not been paid since March, 1984.
    Nogales said that over the next few months Bolivia would
make a one-time offer to buy back all its commercial debt at
the price it trades on the international secondary market -- 
10-15 cents on the dlr. He said Bolivia's commercial bank
steering committee agreed at a meeting in New York to consider
the proposal, but it is still unclear what proportion of the
country's creditor banks will take up the offer.
    One foreign banker speculated that Bolivia might be able to
buy back up to 30 pct of its commercial debt paper under the
deal, mostly from small banks who have written off their loans
to the country.
    But he said the larger creditors were more interested in a
scheme of debt-equity swaps, similar to that which has operated
in Chile for the past two years.
    The Bolivian government has yet to draw up proposals for
debt-equity swaps, but the banker said it was planning to
privatise more than 100 state companies and these could serve
as a basis for such a scheme.
    Foreign bankers said this type of proposal might prove
attractive to Bolivia in the long run, especially as the
government realises that it will have to attract a large amount
of new capital in order to grow.
    Planning Minister Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada told Reuters
that Bolivia was hoping for five to six billion dlrs in new
investment over the next 10 to 12 years.
    The government realises that in order to remain viable,
Bolivia will need to develop new exports.
    The price of tin, which accounted for some 45 pct of
Bolivia's exports in 1984, has collapsed on the world markets,
and gas, the country's major revenue earner, is in abundant
supply in the region.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8415>
A further special session of the
International Tin Council, ITC, held here tomorrow, March 24,
will give member countries an update on the latest debate over
the hundreds of millions of sterling lost when its buffer stock
price support scheme failed in October 1985, delegates said.
    But the ITC quarterly session scheduled for April 8-9 will
be important, as the council will by then be wanting to decide
on whether the current pact should be extended beyond June 30
or just allowed to expire, delegates said. A two year extension
is possible.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8416>
Amalgamated Metal Trading, AMT, today
lodged an appeal against the ruling which prevented its
petition to wind up the International Tin Council, ITC.
    The verdict was given by Mr Justice Millett on January 22,
when AMT led an effort by ITC creditors to recover sums claimed
by banks and London Metal Exchange brokers as a result of the
collapse of the ITC's buffer stock operations in October 1985.
AMT had until March 26 to lodge its appeal.
    The grounds for the appeal are that the judge erred on
three points when giving his verdict, Michael Arnold, head of
the broker creditors group Tinco Realisations, told Reuters.
    The judge ruled that the U.K. Court had no jurisdiction to
wind up the Tin Council, that the ITC was not an association
within the meaning of the Companies Act, and that the
winding-up petition was not a proceeding in respect of an
arbitration award. AMT will contest all three points.
    The U.K. Companies Act allows the possibility of the
winding-up of what it defines as an association, and AMT will
argue that the Tin Council falls within this definition, Arnold
said.
    The ITC has immunity except for the enforcement of an
arbitration award, and thus it is important for AMT that the
court accepts that the winding-up petition represents a move to
enforce an arbitration ruling.
    The court originally decided that the winding-up petition
went wider than the enforcement of such a debt, an AMT
spokesman said.
    The appeal is unlikely to be heard for several months, but
a case brought by fellow ITC creditor Maclaine Watson is to be
heard on April 28. This is a move by the metal broker to have a
receiver appointed over the ITC's assets.
    Since similar arguments will be used in this case, it is
possible that any appeal in the Maclaine Watson case could be
consolidated with AMT's appeal, Arnold said.
    Other ITC creditors have brought direct actions against the
Council's member states and an application by the governments
to strike out the first of these, brought by J.H. Rayner
(Mincing Lane) Ltd, is to be heard on May 11.
    Shearson Lehman Brothers action against the LME's tin
"ring-out" in March 1986 is also scheduled to be heard in the
near future. The hearing date has now been put back slightly to
June 8.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8427>
Bolivia's top union leader today joined
a hunger strike by 1,300 state employed miners and workers to
press for higher wages he said.
    Juan Lechin Oquendo, the veteran secretary general of the
Bolivian Labour Organization, COB, told reporters: "I am
joining the fast to abide with our call for a hunger strike".
    Lechin, 83, became one of 12 COB leaders to join a hunger
strike to protest against the austerity programme of the
government of president Victor Paz Estenssoro.
    The striking leader began his fast as leaders of 9,000
miners employed by the state corporation COMIBOL were due to
star negotiations on ways to solve their conflict over pay.
    About 1,300 miners and workers entered today their fourth
day of fast in union offices and Roman Catholic churches to
press for a substantial hike in Bolivia's minimum monthly wage,
which is 40 bolivianos (about 20 dlrs), COB leader Walter
Degadillo said.
    "I will take part in the miners' negotiations because that
does not force me to suspend my fast," Lechin told reporters.
    The COMIBOL miners' strike entered its fifth day to press
for higher wages and more funds for the mining nationalised
industry.
    About 20,000 miners, or two-thirds of the working force,
have been laid off through the government's decision to
streamline the deficit-ridden state corporation following a
collapse in the international tin price.
    The government, faced with mounting social unrest against
its economic policies, has called the miners' strike and fasts
part of a campaign aimed at discrediting it during the visit of
West German president Richard von Weizsaecker, who began a
four-day visit last Friday.
    "I regret not being able to attend an invitation by
president Weizsaecker to a dinner tonight because I am on a
hunger strike," Lechin told reporters. "I also have to orga-
nise the strike."
    Weizsaecker is hosting a dinner tonight for Paz Estenssoro
and had invited both Lechin and Victor Lopez, the miners'
federation top leader. Although lopez has not joined the fast,
union sources said its unlikely he would attend the dinner.
 Reuter
</BODY>
<BODY DOCID=8933>
An extension of the sixth International
Tin Agreement, ITA, for one or two years beyond June 30 is
increasingly likely, International Tin Council, ITC, delegates
said following a special council session today.
    A formal decision will be taken at the quarterly council
session on April 8-9 when decisions are needed on the budget
and activities for the year beginning July one, they stated.
    Delegates said most countries now favour a continued legal
ITC presence to answer the still unresolved legal disputes over
the outstanding debts of its buffer stock with court hearings
likely to continue well after the June 30 expiry of the pact.
    The ITC was informally told of the appeal made yesterday by
Amalgamated Metal Trading Ltd, AMT, against the January court
ruling against it in the legal bid it led on behalf of ITC
creditor brokers to have the ITC wound up.
    In January the judge ruled that the U.K. Court had no
jurisdiction to wind up the tin council, the ITC was not an
association within the meaning of the U.K. Companies act, and
the winding-up petition was not a proceeding in respect in
respect of an arbitration award.
    AMT is appealing on all points and has said it is important
for the court to accept that a winding-up petition is a move to
enforce an arbitration ruling.
 Reuter
</BODY>
